Moshoeshoe is one of eight people being interviewed for the post at Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday. CAPE TOWN - Attorney Moshoeshoe Moshoeshoe believes his experience at the South African Revenue Service (Sars) will stand him in good stead as deputy public protector. Moshoeshoe is one of eight people being interviewed for the post at Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday. The current incumbent Kevin Malunga steps down early next month. Parliament’s justice committee wants to put its recommended person for the post before the National Assembly in about two weeks’ time. The soft-spoken attorney was like all the candidates, first given a few minutes to talk about himself and why he thinks he is the man for the job. “I have amassed a lot of experience in litigation. I’ve also moved upward in respect of assuming management roles and leading teams.” Moshoeshoe said over the years, his value system evolved. “I see myself as a man who has integrity, who is honest and who must be fair.” Moshoeshoe said he was never investigated or faced any disciplinary action. NOXOLO MBANGENI Noxolo Mbangeni said she had "vast experience" when it came to dealing with corruption. The Cape advocate is also one of the contenders for the position of deputy public protector. Mbangeni hails from Butterworth in the Eastern Cape and graduated from the University of the Western Cape with a B Juris and LLB degrees. “As a prosecutor, I dealt with a number of cases dealing with corruption. Recently as an advocate, I had a few briefs dealing with POCA (Proceeds of Crime Act) matters, of course on the defence side this time around not on behalf of the state – so I have vast experience when it comes to dealing with corruption matters.” Mbangeni was asked why she had put herself forward for the position of Deputy Public Protector. She said: “You are able to investigate maladministration and all malfeasance in the public service and if I am able to make sure that the public entities have been deterred from causing [that] maladministration, to me, that would be an achievement.”