The team is on a trophy tour and will visit some parts of Soweto on Thursday. JOHANNESBURG - Throngs of fans clamoured around the Springboks' special open-top bus on Thursday, as the Rugby World Cup champions' trophy parade made its way through Johannesburg. The team began the nationwide tour began in Pretoria on Thursday. South Africa became the first team to win the Webb Ellis Cup on three different continents when they beat England 32-12 in the final on Saturday. Eager residents lined up in the streets as they patiently waited for the arrival of the winning team. Many younger Springbok fans were also present. It's been a day of high emotion as South Africans celebrate the world champions   Following a day of fanfare and celebrations in Pretoria and Johannesburg, Soweto has now welcomed home the heroes. They have been met by cheering fans in Orlando as they showed off the Webb Ellis trophy. The cheers could be heard as far as Vilakazi Street as the springboks made a stop in Orlando to show off the World Cup. Captain Siya Kolisi was once again the big attraction for the crowds as he carried the cup. Along with fans, Orlando Pirates players were also in attendance to welcome the Springboks. VILAKAZI STREET There's a party atmosphere at Vilakazi Street in Soweto as fans and celebrities gather to welcome the Springboks. The historic area is the final stop for the team on Thursday. Soweto has lived up to its party reputation as school children, families and a few famous faces have gathered to celebrate with the Springboks on their trophy parade. Many of the people there are chanting the name of World Cup-winning captain Kolisi who has indulged them by lifting the Webb Ellis trophy. This visit is the last on what has been a busy day for the team who have made stops in Pretoria and Johannesburg. Durban is the next stop on Friday for the Springboks parade before heading to East London and Port Elizabeth over the weekend. GALLERY: World champion Boks kick off victory tour in Gauteng  Earlier, President Cyril Ramaphosa joked that Siya Kolisi and the rest of the Springbok would be elected to Cabinet if national elections were held this year. Ramaphosa said: “If we were about to hold an election, I have no doubt that the entire rugby team would be in Cabinet, in Parliament because they would’ve won the elections. So, I’m glad that our elections are over and Siya Kolisi could’ve been our president.”