On Thursday, Mabuza was asked in parliament to condemn the brutal laws in other African countries which have made homosexuality a crime. JOHANNESBURG – The Democratic Alliance (DA) is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to act against his deputy David Mabuza for refusing to condemn anti-gay laws on the continent. On Thursday, Mabuza was asked in parliament to condemn the brutal laws in other African countries which have made homosexuality a crime. In response to a question our MP @brauteseth_tim as to whether he will take a principled stand and condemn human rights abuses across Africa, Mabuza responded by saying ‘let’s be decent and keep our mouths shut’ - @jsteenhuisen https://t.co/e2Ud3BibAy  He responded by saying, “We must mind our business and not impose our beliefs on others”. DA parliamentary leader John Steenhuizen said, “The President must rebuke and distance himself from those comments, and I think he should recommit himself to ensuring that in our engagements with the rest of Africa we will always place human rights and human dignity at the heart of that engagement.” It cannot be this government’s stance to keep quiet in the face of an assault on the rights of fellow Africans. As a leader on the continent, South Africa ought to be a vocal champion of human rights and a torchbearer for progressive, compassionate politics. - @jsteenhuisen  MABUZA MUST HANG HIS HEAD IN SHAME The DA said Mabuza should hang his head in shame for refusing to condemn anti-gay laws on the continent. The South African government has often been criticised for what others have called its quiet diplomacy. Steenhuisen said by refusing to condemn anti-gay laws on the continent, Mabuza failed the country. “As the deputy president, you deal with human rights issues but you choose to keep your mouth shut and frankly I think we’re in trouble that I thought we’d be.” He said the country must lead the way on the continent in upholding human rights. The party has called on the president to rebuke Mabuza, distance himself from his comments and recommit himself to ensuring his government will always place human rights at the heart of the country’s foreign policy.