The former Public Protector said she had completed investigations and knew who was in the wrong beyond the passing of the buck to lower-ranking officials. JOHANNESBURG - Former Public Protector Professor Thuli Madonsela  said she was surprised that Parliament decided that she shouldn’t hand over the Waterkloof report  before she left office. Madonsela said she had completed investigations and knew who was in the wrong beyond the passing of the buck to lower-ranking officials. “We got footage, for example, of what happened in the radio dialogue between the person at the Waterkloof base and the person who spoke to them, which was in this particular case Mr [Bruce] Koloane. We interviewed him and all the people that were part of the task team that came back and passed the buck onto the lower-ranking officials,” she said. Madonsela was speaking on the Eusebius McKaiser Show on 702. Eyewitness News revealed in April 2013 that a private aircraft carrying guests of the Guptas had landed at the national keypoint to attend a lavish wedding at the Sun City resort in the North West. Former international relations head of protocol Bruce Koloane claimed he was put under pressure by "number one”, believed to be former President Jacob Zuma, to facilitate the landing. Zuma denied playing any part in the incident. MADONSELA SETS RECORD STRAIGHT Madonsela said she was also surprised when her successor Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane said no investigations were done on the Guptas landing their jet at Waterkloof airbase because she had completed those investigations. The former Public Protector said she tried to correct Mkhwebane’s office, but the correction was never publicised. She said the identities of senior people who issued instructions in the Gupta landing were known, but she left office before completing her report. “Again, people will say I shouldn’t interfere, but if I’m being asked, I have a duty to answer. When this question was first asked of me, I was at Harvard. The Public Protector had said there was no investigation and I texted Oupa Segalwe [the Public Protector's spokesperson] and said that is incorrect, but nothing happened,” Madonsela said. “From my side, the answer is simple, we did this investigation and we completed it fully.” (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)