Ndlovu Youth Choir's rendition of 'My African Dream', conducted by choir director Ralf Schmitt, aired on US TV on Tuesday night. But they're not new to online fame. JOHANNESBURG - The Ndlovu Youth Choir's beautiful performance on America's Got Talent  (AGT) got four nods from all the judges, including Simon Cowell and has thanked fans for supporting their dream. Their rendition of My African Dream, conducted by choir director Ralf Schmitt and composed by South African-born Alan Lazar, aired on US TV on Tuesday night. AGT is one of the biggest talent shows in the world and the winning act receives a $1 million prize and global recognition. The video of the group's performance has gone viral on social media.  "You showcased the beauty you represent and you are giving so much hope. I can't thank you enough. Thank you!," said judge and actress Gabrielle Union. "We've always been waiting for a choir like this, something we've never heard before with your energy bouncing off me right there," Cowell added.  The group tweeted their appreciation for all the love they have received. The support we have received so far has been amazing. Thank you to each and everyone of you who have shared the video of our @AGT audition. If you haven't watch the full audition yet, follow the link below.https://t.co/GlJOUoIm8x#AGT pic.twitter.com/EUkmwgh47C  YES, THEY'VE BEEN FAMOUS FOR A WHILE NOW Ndlovu Youth Choir isn't new to viral fame. In October 2018, they put a twist on Ed Sheeran's 'Shape of You' with Grammy Award-winning South African flutist Wouter Kellerman. A video of the rendition on YouTube has since received over 2,8 million views.  THEIR BACK STORY The choir has been around for 10 years, having started in 2009 as an after-school activity community programme for disadvantaged kids. For the members, the choir is not just a hobby, but a means to escape the many social problems surrounding them and their communities. Ndlovu Youth Choir sings in all 11 South African languages. Watch the video below for more. 