Cosatu has described the document as an attempt to exploit the fiscal crisis by pushing a rightwing agenda. JOHANNESBURG - The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) called for the withdrawal of the draft economic strategy document released by the Treasury. On Thursday, Cosatu described the document as an attempt to exploit the fiscal crisis by pushing a rightwing agenda. The economic strategy is aimed at aligning government’s economic approach towards the achievement of inclusive growth, economic transformation and competitiveness. Cosatu’s deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe said the document did not offer any real changes to fiscal, monetary or other macro-economic policy. “We have some questions about this draft economic recovery strategy document: What is the status of this document? Why release a document to the public before it has gone to Cabinet? Who will be responsible for it? What if it diverges into existing policies?” Cosatu has accused Finance Minister Tito Mboweni of acting unilaterally by publishing the draft economic recovery strategy. The federation said even President Cyril Ramaphosa was sidelined in the drafting of the document, which was released for public comment on Tuesday. Cosatu is adamant that the finance minister is not acting in the interests of South Africans by pushing through the surprise draft policy document - which is meant to help the country navigate its way out of the economic crisis. The federation - which is also in an alliance with the African National Congress (ANC) - said the governing party and its alliance partners were not consulted as required. In its criticism, Cosatu said the strategy went against ANC policy and Ramaphosa’s commitment on Eskom by proposing that it auctions off its coal plants. Phetoe added: “This draft economic strategy makes the government incoherent, confused and unreliable. Cosatu will continue to engage with any proposal at Nedlac but we will oppose this particular paper and demand that Treasury withdraws this.” The federation also said the strategy fails to address the challenges in state-owned companies and how these will be solved. SOEs, along with Eskom, have been described as the biggest threat to the economy.