President Cyril Ramaphosa's first question and answer session of the sixth Parliament is under way. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday said he would not set up another commission of inquiry to investigate corruption allegations against Bosasa. The company, now known as African Global Operations, has been at the centre of explosive allegations involving corruption in government entities. The same company also donated R500,000 to Ramaphosa’s presidential campaign. “There is absolutely no reason to establish a new inquiry to investigate a matter that is already been investigated by a sitting commission of inquiry. As a country, and as leaders, we should direct our efforts towards supporting the Zondo Commission of Inquiry and urging all those with information relevant to its mandate to make themselves available to the commission,” he said. Ramaphosa is in the National Assembly for his first question and answer session of the sixth Parliament. WATCH: President answers questions in the National Assembly  DA members began chanting in the house after being unhappy with the manner in which Ramaphosa answered a question from DA leader Mmusi Maimane.   RamaphosaQandA Ramaphosa: "The more I listen to Mr Maimane the more it sounds like a broken record." Says Maimane is "regurgitating" the same issue over and over.    EFF leader Julius Malema is set to ask about the details of people in his office and Cabinet who helped raise money and potential donors he met at dinners organised by those leading the campaign. DA leader Mmusi Maimane will ask whether Ramaphosa will establish an independent inquiry under a retired judge into allegations against Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, aired at the state capture inquiry. He also wants the findings of the Public Protector - that Ramaphosa deliberately misled Parliament a donation to his CR17 campaign - probed. ANC MP Judy Hermans wants details of the government’s plans to tackle slow economic growth and job losses, which have driven unemployment to an 11-year high.