Miché Solomon was kidnapped as a three-day-old infant and raised by her kidnapper. CAPE TOWN - The woman South Africa came to know as Zephany Nurse has spoken of how learning her true identity has helped her to cope with life’s challenges. She was kidnapped as a three-day-old infant and raised by her kidnapper. It was only when she hit high school and unknowingly made friends with her biological sister that she learnt who she really was. She's now 22, has reclaimed the name she was raised with, Miché Solomon, and has written a book about her experience. With the veil now lifted on her identity, Solomon said she was forced to grow up much quicker. Solomon was 17 when DNA tests confirmed she was the baby that was kidnapped in April 1997. “Being Zephany, I would say she actually forced a lot of things, positive things out of me. It taught me what life is actually about. She forced me to be strong, she forced me to... I didn't have any other choice but to be strong.” Solomon said she experienced a sense of disconnect when she was first introduced to her biological parents Celeste and Mornè Nurse. “I remember them hugging me. I'm not trying to be rude. I felt that… I felt absolutely nothing.” Solomon said she would like to rebuild her relationship with the woman who has been jailed for her kidnapping and who raised her as her own. At the same time, the 22-two-year-old said she was not on speaking terms with her biological mother, Celeste Nurse, at the moment but she was willing to work on establishing a relationship with her. “Even if we had that relationship and never got to have that mother-daughter [relationship], I mean, it’s a respectable daughter-friend relationship. I’m okay with that.” Solomon said she experienced a lot of conflict and confusion when DNA tests confirmed she was the little baby girl that went missing in April 1997. She explained that she was taken to a safe house after the revelation. “The social worker who was taking care of me was there for me, but I needed my family at that time. I needed that normal feeling, I needed those people that knew me when I cried, angry and someone that I could talk to. I didn’t have any of that around.” WATCH: Miché Solomon on reclaiming her identity, new book Zephany Nurse, known now as Miché Solomon joins John Maytham LIVE in studio to discuss her astonishing True Story.  (Edited by Shimoney Regter)