In an exclusive interview with EWN, Busisiwe Mkhwebane raised concerns about the relationship between her office and the Presidency, saying their legal battles would lead to a constitutional crisis. JOHANNESBURG - Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane accused President Cyril Ramaphosa's administration of failing to protect the country's citizens by litigating against her. In an exclusive interview with Eyewitness News, Mkhwebane raised concerns about the relationship between her office and the Presidency, saying the legal battles between the two would lead to a constitutional crisis. • Mkhwebane: Legal battle with Ramaphosa could lead to constitutional crisis • Parliament has no legal basis to remove PP from office - Mkhwebane • Mkhwebane slates judges over court rulings, says they should be objective The Public Protector faced off with the president in court over her remedial action involving Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan where Ramaphosa wanted to interdict the implementation of the remedial action pending Gordhan's review application. The president also filed an application to review and set aside Mkhwebane's Bosasa report, which found Ramaphosa violated the executive code of ethics by not declaring donations to his presidential campaign in 2017. She also found the president deliberately misled Parliament when he responded to a question about the R500,000 donation from former Bosasa boss Gavin Watson in the National Assembly. Mkhwebane has lashed out at judges who have delivered damning findings against her, saying they must be objective and play the ball and not the man. She also suggested to EWN that President Ramaphosa picked and chose how to apply the law. Mkhwebane has raised questions about her legal battle with the members of the executive. “And if you’re litigating being the State against the Public Protector, then what are you saying? It means you’re not even protecting your citizens, the very same people who voted for you. Are you dealing with a Public Protector or you’re impacting on the very same people at the grassroots?” She said there was nothing political about her investigations involving the president and other members of the executive. FULL INTERVIEW: The Public Protector 