The boat had spent six days anchored off Lampedusa before a local prosecutor ordered the migrants be allowed to land amid a probe of Italy's far-right Interior Minister for forbidding their entry to the port. LAMPEDUSA - Eighty-three migrants who disembarked on Italy's Lampedusa island were again in limbo on Wednesday as a European deal to redistribute them failed to materialise and Madrid said it could hit the Spanish charity with a hefty fine for rescuing them. The prospect of a fine comes after a protracted standoff between the Spanish NGO Proactiva Open Arms  and Italy's far-right Interior Minister Matteo Salvini finally came to an end. The boat had spent six days anchored off Lampedusa before a local prosecutor ordered the migrants be allowed to land amid a probe of Salvini for forbidding their entry to the port. Many of them had spent 19 days onboard the ship after being picked up while in difficulty trying to make the perilous journey from Libya to Europe in small boats. As they walked down the gangplank one by one to the island's shore overnight, some could be seen limping or in bandages. Salvini, whose Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte resigned in protest at the League leader's bid to bring the government down, had forbidden all NGO rescue boats from entering Italian ports. LAST VESSEL The last remaining charity vessel operating in the Mediterranean, the Ocean Viking, was on Wednesday still seeking a safe port for its 356 rescued migrants. The ship operated by French charities SOS Mediterranee and Doctors Without Borders (MSF) has been holding its position for 10 days between Malta and Lampedusa, asking for a safe port. "As maritime law stipulates, we've been asking Italian and Maltese search and rescue coordination centres for a safe port since we made our first rescue on 9 August," said Frederic Penard, head of operations for SOS Mediterranee. "For the time being we've had no reply from Italy and a rather negative one from Malta," he told AFP by phone. The Open Arms on Wednesday sailed to Porto Empedocle on Sicily where the prosecutor ordered it temporarily seized as part of his investigation. Spain's Deputy Prime Minister Carmen Calvo told Spanish radio, "the Open Arms doesn't have a permit to rescue." The vessel had in April been authorised to leave Barcelona, where it was immobilised for three months, to transport humanitarian aid to Greece. It was banned from heading to the seas off Libya, often the launchpad for migrants attempting to reach Europe, but went anyway. MILLION DOLLAR FINE A document from the directorate-general for Spain's merchant navy sent to AFP by the Proactiva Open Arms charity said it risks a fine of up to 901,000 euros ($1 million) for violating this ban. There were initially 147 mainly African migrants on the ship but as the days passed, some were evacuated for medical care and all minors were allowed to disembark. Six European Union countries - France, Germany, Romania, Portugal, Spain and Luxembourg - have offered to take them all in. Calvo said the military ship sent to Lampedusa could take charge of those migrants allocated to Spain if this agreement is implemented. Sicily prosecutor Luigi Patronaggio intervened as part of a probe into alleged kidnapping and refusing to obey orders targeting Salvini. Salvini hit back on Facebook about the decision to let the migrants off the boat, saying: "If anybody thinks they can scare me with the umpteenth complaint and wants a trial, they're mistaken." A Spanish naval patrol boat, the Audaz, set off from Rota in southwestern Spain on Tuesday on a three-day trip to Lampedusa to fetch the Open Arms migrants. Spain had tried to break the standoff over the migrants at the weekend by offering up its southern port of Algeciras, which the NGO said could "not be achieved" due to the distance and tensions on board. Madrid then suggested Mallorca in the Balearic Islands, nearer but still around 1,000 kilometres from Lampedusa. The charity described the offer as "totally incomprehensible" and continued to demand the ship be allowed to dock in Lampedusa.