In a statement, the DA said police need to probe the circumstances leading up to the fateful accident involving the Gavin Watson. JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) said it had noted reports confirming that Bosasa executive Gavin Watson was killed in an accident during the early hours of Monday morning. Police have opened a culpable homicide case after a crash close to OR Tambo International Airport that claimed the life of the Bosasa CEO. In a statement, the DA said police need to probe the circumstances leading up to the "fateful accident" involving Watson. Watson's company, now called African Global Operations, is alleged to have pumped millions of rand into the African National Congress (ANC) campaigns and has been accused of massive corruption at the state capture commission of inquiry. The DA’s statement read: “The death of Gavin Watson may have a material impact on the work of the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into state capture, it is therefore vital, given SAPS stating that a case of “culpable homicide” has been opened, that even a whiff of foul play is dispelled by a thorough and transparent investigation by the SAPS. This is to ensure that other witnesses are not intimated by this incident and for the commission of inquiry to conduct its work without fear or favour. "Angelo Agrizzi’s testimony, as well as the revelations by DA leader Mmusi Maimane of the cosy and potentially corrupt relationship Bosasa has with the ANC and Ramaphosa, indicate that Watson had a lot to say before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry.” Meanwhile, motorists who came across the crash site where Watson died have recounted what they saw. A woman who drove past the accident scene agreed that speed may have been a problem. “What really happened is that he couldn’t negotiate the curve. He might have been in a hurry, we don’t know, because if it happened in the morning as they say, then obviously, he had a flight to catch.” One motorist said the Hawks were also there: “There was basically a lot of police on the scene and the Hawks. It makes you wonder what actually happened.” QUESTIONS RAISED There appear to be more questions than answers surrounding Watson’s death as police investigate a culpable homicide case. The media contingent outside Gavin Watson’s house in Roodepoort has increased as questions are being raised about his death. It’s quiet outside Watson’s estate with only a security guard stationed at the entrance. Police are now dissecting evidence collected at the crash scene just outside OR Tambo International Airport, hoping to piece together a culpable homicide case. Only the driver’s side of the white Toyota Corolla, which is registered in Bosasa’s name, is destroyed. Police have asked for South Africans to refrain from spreading rumors about Watson’s death.