Peet Venter said he was also told by former Bosasa executives Angelo Agrizzi and Andries van Tonder that CEO Gavin Watson never signed off on any documents to keep his hands clean. JOHANNESBURG - Former Bosasa  auditor Peet Venter has told the Zondo Commission that CEO Gavin Watson used him to do his dirty work so that no evidence led back to him. Venter said he was also told by former Bosasa executives Angelo Agrizzi and Andries van Tonder that Watson never signed off on any documents to keep his hands clean. Venter said the final straw was when Watson instructed him to hand over a bag full of money to former Correctional Services official Patrick Gillingham. “Mr Watson just kept on making illegal demands and I just couldn’t take it anymore. The last nail in the coffin was when he told me to meet with Patrick Gillingham and to hand him a parcel containing cash. I knew it was cash because it was wrapped in a bank-secured bag.” Venter said he was also ordered to make payments to President Cyril Ramaphosa's son Andile. Ramaphosa reportedly admitted that Bosasa did, in fact, pay him R2 million for a business deal which he said he now regrets. Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane now wants the president to appear before the state capture commission to come clean about his son’s dealings. "What Nkandla was to Jacob Zuma, Bosasa is to Cyril Ramaphosa and therefore it becomes important for the people of South Africa that if they’re going to go and elect a leader, we best know what type of a leader we’re electing. Is that leader embroiled in corruption, bribery?" Venter also told the state capture inquiry that Watson deliberately crashed the company's servers to prevent the Special Investigative Unit from gathering information. Venter has detailed dodgy financial deals and tax evasion alleged by Watson and Bosasa while he worked at the company. Venter said he, however, has no personal knowledge of any crash taking place at Bosasa that was aimed at deleting all incriminating data files. “Cahir, if there was a crash and they lost the financial data, surely they would’ve had a problem and they would’ve notified the auditors about it, which I’m not aware of. So that’s why I’m saying, according to my knowledge, no crash took place.”