The JMPD said they were on high alert throughout the evening and that most of the night's proceedings ran smoothly. JOHANNESBURG - The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) says there were no major incidents in or around the FNB Stadium after the Ed Sheeran concert on Saturday night. The pop star is in the country as part of his Divide tour and played to a capacity crowd. The JMPD said they were on high alert throughout the evening and that most of the night's proceedings ran smoothly. #EdSheeran @edsheeran opens with 'Castle on the hill' and of course the crowd is singing along. #EdSheeranSA #DivideTourSA #DivideTourJHB - WT pic.twitter.com/LLx6zNhQaw  #EdSheeran so much lyrical beauty on stage... It can only be @shekhinahd... #EdSheeranSA #EdSheeranJHB #DivideTourSA pic.twitter.com/3NUEkgLpk0  There were safety concerns around the event given the fact that fans were accosted and assaulted after the Global Citizen Concert at the same venue last year JMPD spokesperson, Wayne Minnaar said there was one smash and grab incident after the concert. “The traffic management plan went ahead yesterday according to plan at the Ed Shereen concert and law enforcement worked well with personnel of the security. Four suspects had to be arrested for a smash and grab attack on the Nasrec Road where they stole a cellphone which was later recovered and the four suspects were arrested.” 'UBER DID NOT STICK TO AGREED PLAN' The JMPD said ride-hailing e-service Uber  did not stick to the agreed pick up and drop off plan at the concert.Uber is an accredited transport service for the event Minnaar said Uber drivers were not picking up passengers from the designated areas that were part of the operational plan which caused some safety concerns Minnaar said the JMPD is disappointed at drivers for not following the plan. “Uber did not stick to the agreed plan of pick up and drop off at Nasrec. They were picking up on Rand Show Road and Nascrec Road. We are expressing our dissatisfaction about that.”