Mmusi Maimane told the few hundred supporters gathered on the grass that the DA wanted people to stand together to address the injustices of apartheid. POTCHEFSTROOM – Democratic Alliance (DA) federal leader Mmusi Maimane brought the party’s election promises to the North West province on Saturday. He told a rally that South Africans could only address problems like load shedding and crime if they unite. DA supporters are painting Potchefstroom’s Trim Park blue for the launch of the party’s North West manifesto. Maimane told the few hundred supporters gathered on the grass that the DA wanted people to stand together to address the injustices of apartheid. Maimane said President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed South Africa can defeat load shedding like it did apartheid, but the ANC itself was the culprit. Maimane said the DA wanted people to stand together to address the injustices of apartheid. He urged supporters to vote out the ANC government just like they voted out the apartheid government. The party is hoping to gain some of the votes the ANC could lose due to infighting in the province. It is also fighting to retain its traditional white support base, as the Freedom Front Plus is conducting a vigorous campaign to attract these votes. North West premier candidate Joe McGluwa is expected to outline the party’s provincial manifesto. While the party’s provincial chairperson Carin Visser, who was one of the leaders of a ratepayer’s boycott against a lack of municipal delivery, is also set to speak. Maimane is expected to take the party’s door-to-door campaign to Tumahole outside Parys later on Saturday. "Instead of addressing the injustices of the apartheid, President Ramaphosa's comrades got together and stole from the people of South Africa.  We voted out the apartheid government, and we are here to vote out the government of the ANC." - @MmusiMaimane #DAmanifesto pic.twitter.com/fAfCxOsJdZ  FARM MURDER, WOMEN & CHILD ABUSE The DA leader has promised the people of North West a special police task force that will deal with the problem of farm murders.He also said stronger action is needed to ensure that women and children are safe. Maimane told an enthusiastic crowd of a few hundred supporters that, when you kill a farmer, you hijack food from South Africa. There were cheers when he added that the killing of farmers will doom the country to a future of poverty. Switching from English and Setswana to Afrikaans, Maimane said many people have told him “dis eintlik baie gevaarlik om op ‘n plaas te bly,” [translating to ‘it’s dangerous to live on a farm.’] He said if the DA is in government, it would ensure that there is a special task force to deal with murders on farms and in all communities. Maimane also said too many women suffer from domestic violence and have become punching bags. There were enthusiastic cheers from the women in the crowd when he said the DA wants special courts to deal with violence against women. WATCH: "Even President Cyril Ramaphosa is joining Premier Helen Zille where they are delivering title deeds because the DA has been delivering title deeds to the people." - @MmusiMaimane#DAmanifesto pic.twitter.com/0q7CmM9Wg3  "The North West is the province of hunger, and as a DA we are here to say hunger no more.  We are here to bring the government that will bring change in this province." - @MmusiMaimane #DAmanifesto pic.twitter.com/LeH3MjS6kl  When you are in the North West, you can't help but feel that our people are starving.Our people are hungry because they don't have jobs.Hungry people cannot claim freedom, that's why we stand united to say we want A Job in Every Home. - @MmusiMaimane#DAmanifesto pic.twitter.com/BIxT1Y5eRV  WATCH: Leader @MmusiMaimane dissects the challenges facing the unemployed SAns!If you don't have A Job in a Home, it makes it hard to survive - the people cannot buy food, cannot get healthcare, & get abused by the govt that gives food parcels. - @MmusiMaimane #DAmanifesto pic.twitter.com/rASRKOEFFN 