Vuyokazi Menye testified that Dan Matjila went overboard in terms of trying to find out who was behind emails to the PIC board against him. JOHANNESBURG - The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) commission of inquiry has heard that former CEO Dan Matjila spearheaded an investigation aimed at identifying a whistleblower, which was against company policy. Former IT boss Vuyokazi Menye testified that Matjila went overboard in terms of trying to find out who was behind emails to the PIC board making serious allegations about his conduct. One of the claims had to do with Matjila allegedly helping his girlfriend secure a loan. Menye said the head of IT security Simphiwe Mayisela was instructed to open a case with the police to secure a subpoena so they could find out who was sending the whistleblower emails under the name ‘James Nogu’. However, she said she didn't know at the time that the police had instead opened a corruption case against Matjila. Menye said Matjila was persistent in his efforts to unmask the whistleblower: “The CEO was the one who was inappropriately spearheading this investigation of this whistleblower while the very allegations of corruption were levelled against him.” Menye said she was suspended for speaking out against Matjila and was then forced to sign a settlement agreement. MATJILA DEMANDED ALL SYSTEM PASSWORDS The former IT boss at the PIC has revealed how Matjila demanded all the system passwords in a bid to track down a whistleblower and told employees he owned the corporation. She claimed he hired forensic investigators and then demanded all the system administration passwords which was against the company's policy. She also explained how this would put the organisation at risk but she was met with resistance. “He stood up, shouted and said: 'Vuyokazi, this is my organisation, I own PIC.'” Shortly afterwards Matjila suspended her: “Before I signed the letter, I said: 'Before I attach my signature to this letter, you will no longer be dealing with me, you will be dealing with my God and my ancestors.'” Menye said even though she was forced to sign a settlement agreement, she would like to be reinstated to her position. (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)