The contracts cover the Protea men’s bilateral tours away to India in October and March. CAPE TOWN - Cricket South Africa (CSA) announced the Proteas men’s squad and Proteas women’s players will be awarded national contracts for the 2019/20 year. The contracts cover the Protea men’s bilateral tours away to India in October and March, the full tour home series against England next summer and the home white ball series against Australia, as well as this year’s ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup. The women’s major upcoming commitment is the ICC Women’s World T20 Cup to be played in Australia in early 2020. There also important International Women’s Championship series against Pakistan (home) and India and New Zealand (both away). Reeza Hendricks and Theunis de Bruyn were not previously awarded full national contracts but were upgraded to a full contract after reaching the necessary threshold during the course of the current season. The upgrade system will again be in place this year. Those players performing and selected for the Proteas during the 2019/20 season and who are not contracted can qualify for a National Contract upgrade. CSA Cheif Executive Thabang Moroe on the contract announcement. “We have contracted 16 men’s players and 14 women’s players which we feel is the appropriate number to maintain our national squads across the various formats. This enables us to contract both our Test players as well as those who are limited overs specialists.” CSA contracted Proteas men’s players: Hashim Amla (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras) Temba Bavuma (bizhub Highveld Lions) Theunis de Bruyn (Multiply Titans) Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans) Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans) Dean Elgar (Multiply Titans) Reeza Hendricks (bizhub Highveld Lions) Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbets Dolphins) Aiden Markram (Multiply Titans) David Miller (Hollywoodbets Dolphins) Lungi Ngidi (Multiply Titans) Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins) Vernon Philander (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras) Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions) Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans) Dale Steyn (Multiply Titans) CSA contracted Proteas women’s players: Trisha Chetty (Gauteng) Mignon du Preez (Northerns) Shabnim Ismail (Gauteng) Marizanne Kapp (EP) Ayabonga Khaka (Gauteng) Masabata Klaas (North West) Lizelle Lee (North West) Sune Luus (Northerns) Zintle Mali (Border) Raisibe Ntozakhe (Gauteng) Tumi Sekhukhune (Easterns) Chloe Tryon (KZN Coastal) Dane van Niekerk (EP) Laura Wolvaardt (WP)