Bongekile ‘Babes Wodumo’ Simelane opened an assault charge against him after a video surfaced showing her being assaulted by Mandla ‘Mamphintsha’ Maphumulo. JOHANNESBURG - Singer Bongekile ‘Babes Wodumo’ Simelane has now laid a criminal complaint with the police against her boyfriend Mandla ‘Mamphintsha’ Maphumulo. Simelane opened an assault charge against him after a video surfaced showing her being assaulted by Maphumulo. Family spokesperson Sakhile Langa has confirmed this, saying they will be holding a media briefing at 10 am on Tuesday. “She has opened a case successfully, but we will be giving out more details tomorrow morning.” Langa says Simelane is currently at home with loved ones and that they appreciate the support they have been shown by South Africans. POLITICAL PARTIES CALL FOR ACTION AGAINST MAMPINTSHA The ANC in Gauteng’s Tasneen Motara has reacted to the Babes Wodumo assault video, saying the party doesn’t want to see another woman die at the hands of her intimate partner. “Things get worse over time and in the worst-case scenario, you end up with dead partners and we wouldn’t want this situation for Babes or anyone in her situation.” The DA's Solly Malatsi said police must act swiftly: “We hope that the South African Police Service and the criminal justice system will take strong action against Mampintsha.” The Economic Freedom Fighters’ Vusi Khoza said they've laid a criminal complaint of assault against Mamphintsha. “We must protect women and expose abuse whenever it takes place irrespective of who the perpetrator or victim is.” The duo's music industry friend DJ Tira has also released a statement speaking against violence against women.  At the same time, civil rights group Not In My Name says proactive steps are needed to deal with gender-based violence in this country. There's been a national outpouring of support for Simelane, with many calling on her to lay criminal complaints against Mamphintsha. Not In My Name’s Themba Masango said: “His repulsive and disgusting actions are typical of a prevalent culture of abuse that is taking our nation. Mampintsha to us is an insecure man and has no sense of his own social value, therefore, he feels the need to violently assert himself in relationships.”