Incidents have been reported in provinces of Limpopo and Kwa-Zulu Natal recently. CAPE TOWN - Economic Freedom Front (EFF) leader Julius Malema says he's ashamed of being a South African because of the recent spate of attacks against foreign nationals in the country. Incidents have been reported in provinces of Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal recently. Malema was addressing a packed Philippi stadium today as part of the party's election campaign drive. He said South Africa is a country for all and called for an end to xenophobic violence. "Whether you are from South Africa, whether you are from Zimbabwe, whether you are from Nigeria - this is your home." He also dismissed claims that foreigners were taking South Africans' jobs. "There are no jobs in South Africa because whites are refusing to invest money in South Africa, they've got too many savings in the bank." International Relations Minister Lindiwe Sisulu called on law enforcement officers to act swiftly and deal with criminals following the recent spate of violence against foreign nationals. #EFFEasternCapeRally Malema: Africa is for all of us, we must unite as Africans and stop with the xenophobic attacks. We must love each other. When you love yourself, you will love fellow Africans.  #EFFEasternCapeRally Malema: You say foreigners take your jobs, but there are white people who have jobs without the proper qualifications. The are chinese here, who do not have papers but you do not attack them. We must not attack each other as black people.  CIC @Julius_S_Malema addressing the #EFFWesternCapeRally  https://t.co/iHsRA7WuSp  The EFF leader called for black and coloured people in the Western Cape to unite and defeat the Democratic Alliance (DA). Malema told the cheering crowd to reclaim the province, which has been under DA control since 2009. "Comrades, we must go and reclaim the streets of Western Cape. Whether you are coloured, whether you are African, all of us are one thing - we are black." Malema will move his campaign to the Free State on Sunday.