The couple, with their newborn Archie, started their African tour in Cape Town and we’ve picked our favourite moments of their visit thus far. JOHANNESBURG - The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have touched down in South Africa and their arrival has been well-received by many locals. Prince Harry, his wife Meghan and their son Archie will be in the country as part of a 10-day visit of southern Africa. The couple, with their newborn Archie, started their African tour in Cape Town and we’ve picked our favourite moments of their visit thus far. SHOWING OFF THEIR DANCE MOVES: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle showed off their dance moves during their first stop in Nyanga, Cape Town on Monday. Dancing to marimba instrumentals and with traditional dancers, they showed spectators what kind of moves they probably were learning before their trip.  VISITING SA’S FIRST MOSQUE: The couple visited the Auwal Majid before being treated to authentic Cape Malay delicacies. VISITING DISTRICT 6: On their second day, the couple visited the District Six Museum and the Homecoming Centre, who are helping to rebuild their local community in Cape Town. Their visit was to help the royal couple understand how much of this diverse community was destroyed when people were forced out of the area during the apartheid era.   BRINGING ROYAL COLOUR TO BO-KAAP The royal couple also visited the historic neighbourhood of Bo-Kaap where they walked through the colourful homes and then popped into a resident's home for some traditional treats. WATCH: Duke and Duchess of Sussex spread love in Bo Kaap  ARCHIE VISITING ARCHBISHOP TUTU: On Wednesday, Archie went on his first tour of the Mother City where he and his parents visited Archbishop Desmond Tutu. We’re curious to find out what they all got up to. Arch meets Archie! This morning The Duke and Duchess were honoured to introduce their son Archie, to Archbishop, Desmond Tutu and his daughter, Thandeka. The Archbishop, a globally respected figure in anti-apartheid movement, is one of the world’s great champions of equality, and has spent his life tirelessly battling injustice. Their Royal Highnesses have joined The Archbishop and Thandeka to learn more about the work of The Tutu and Leah Legacy Foundation, and see first-hand how they are focussing on global awareness of the critical issues affecting the world. #RoyalVisitSouthAfrica • Photo ©️ Reuters A post shared by  The Duke and Duchess of Sussex (@sussexroyal) on Sep 25, 2019 at 2:37am PDT  The tour concludes in Johannesburg on 2 October with the Duke and Duchess attending an audience with President Cyril Ramaphosa and his wife Dr Tshepo Motsepe.