Journalist Ranjeni Munusamy has denied being involved in any 'act of bribery, corruption fraud or money laundering' or that she benefited from state funds as part of an lawful scheme as claimed by Hawks investigator Kobus Roelofse during his testimony at the Zondo commission of inquiry. JOHANNESBURG - Journalist Ranjeni Munusamy has denied being involved in any "act of bribery, corruption fraud or money laundering" or that she benefited from state funds as part of an lawful scheme as claimed by Hawks investigator Kobus Roelofse during his testimony at the Zondo commission of inquiry. Munusamy submitted an application on Monday to present written and oral evidence before the commission and to cross-examine Roelofse. Munusamy's name was first mentioned at the commission two weeks ago after it emerged that her car was allegedly paid off using funds from the secret service account. At the time, Munusamy was not working as a journalist. In 2003, she was suspended at the Sunday Times for passing a story to the City Press on then-National Director of Public Prosecutions Bulelani Ngcuka. She resigned before disciplinary measures were instituted against her. Munusamy then worked as a communications specialist. Munusamy, who is currently on special leave, denied the allegations and said she intended to defend herself against them. In her supporting affidavit, Munusamy said that the narrative that she was corrupt and had committed any wrongdoing was false. She added that Roelofse had not presented any evidence of what she had done or was expected to do in exchange for the payment from the secret service account. In the affidavit, Munusamy detailed how Basheer Abdool, a close family friend and someone who she described as a brother, agreed to settle the debt on her BMW in May 2008. She said that she did not know that Abdool had made the payment from Atlantis Motors, a vehicle dealership that Crime Intelligence secret services did business with, which was also under investigation by the Hawks. She said that as far as she knew, Abdool was doing her a favour out of the goodness of his heart and labelled the testimony of Hawks detective Kobus Roelofse as a sinister spin. "I do not understand how the assistance I got in paying off my Wesbank loan from someone who is a brother to me can remotely constitute 'state capture', corruption or wrongdoing of any kind. It is the kind of personal favour that friends and family do for each other every day. I had no knowledge whatsoever of the connection with Atlantis Motors," Munusamy said in the affidavit. Roelofse told the commission that a secret slush fund belonging to Crime Intelligence was used to pay off Munusamy’s car. On Monday, Colonel Dhanajaya Naidoo told the commission that R40,000 was paid out of the Crime Intelligence secret service account, allegedly for repairs to Munusamy's car. She said that she had been made aware that she would be implicated by Naidoo and that she was also preparing an application to cross-examine him.