The murder of several women including UCT student Uyinene Mrwetyana and boxing champion Leighadre Jewels have brought back into the spotlight the crisis that is feminine in the country. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced an overhaul of the national register of gender-based violence offenders, saying he will ask Parliament to make public the national register of offenders. Ramaphosa was a dressing the nation on Thursday evening. The address comes as the country reels from increasing levels of violence against women and children. The murder of several women including UCT student Uyinene Mrwetyana and boxing champion Leighadre Jewels have brought back into the spotlight the crisis that is feminine in the country. Ramaphosa said it was time to take tough action to deal with gender-based violence. “I wish to enumerate some of the measures we will be taking, we’re going to overhaul and modenise the national register of gender-based violence offenders provided for in the Sexual Offences Act to ensure that it is effective in combatting gender-based violence. The president has also announced that Treasury will make available additional funding to coordinate campaigns on gender-based violence. The president has announced measures that government will undertake to deal with issues of sexual violence against women and children including plans to ensure perpetrators of such violence don’t get bail, parole and go to prison for life. He said he would propose to Parliament that all crimes against women and children should be given harsher sentences. “We agree with the women of our country that the State should oppose bail and parole applications for perpetrators of rape and murder against women and children.” He said there would be teams at provincial levels that will help fight the scourge of gender-based violence. “We will strengthen the emergency teams at provincial levels which bring together the police, social development, health, justice and education to continue providing rapid and comprehensive to all forms of violence against women.” The president has described the violence affecting women and children as a crime against humanity, saying Treasury would make available funding to coordinate campaigns on gender-based violence. 10 PEOPLE DIED DURING XENOPHOBIA ATTACKS Ramaphosa has also revealed that 10 people have died from xenophobic violence in the country, saying two of those were foreign nationals. The president also used his address to speak out against violence on immigrants. Xenophobic attacks and mass looting escalated this week with some shacks set alight and ransacked. This has caused a diplomatic crisis for the country with Zambia's football association cancelling the friendly match with Bafana Banana Bafana, the embassy in Nigeria being attacked and several South African owned businesses in different parts of the continent being vandalised in retaliation. Ramaphosa said the violence needed to end. “No amount of anger, frustration and grievance can justify such acts of distraction and criminality. There can be no excuse on the attack for the homes and businesses of foreigners.”