Matthews Sesoko also commented on a recent investigation report by Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, which was not officially released to the public. JOHANNESBURG - Senior Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) investigator Matthews Sesoko testified at the state capture commission of inquiry on Wednesday that the public protector’s office had been weaponised and was being used against the police watchdog body to derail high profile investigations. Sesoko also commented on a recent investigation report by Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, which was not officially released to the public. Mkhwebane allegedly made adverse findings against Sesoko, Ipid investigator Innocent Khuba, and former executive director Robert McBride. This was related to the appointment of a cell phone investigative analyst. Sesoko said the complaint with the Public Protector was filed by a former disgruntled Ipid investigator. “These allegations were not coming for the first time because they were previously sent to the Public Service Commission and they were investigated and found to be unsubstantiated. But they were now rehashed with the Office of the Public Protector. In my view, the public protector’s office was now being weaponised against us,” he said. He said Mkhwebane’s findings formed part of a trend that was ongoing for more than five years. “This is what we have been experiencing all along that there's this fightback campaign against us so that it derails all these investigations we are conducting,” Sesoko said. MCBRIDE TO CHALLENGE PP’S FINDINGS McBride said he would take the Public Protector’s report against him on judicial review. He said her report titled: Allegations of Maladministration, Improper Conduct and Abuse of Power, was irrational and lacked factual basis. The complaint was lodged by former Ipid investigator Cedrick Nkabinde last year, who accused McBride of unethical behaviour, irregular appointments, maladministration, and victimisation. Nkabinde claimed he was fired for being a whistleblower. The Public Protector found the allegations were substantiated, but McBride said the report was an erosion of the Ipid’s independence to investigate large scale corruption and looting at the South African Police Service. McBride said he would approach the High Court for an interdict against the remedial action proposed by the Public Protector. WATCH: Zondo Inquiry turns spotlight on Ipid 