Over 22 months he issued charges against 34 individuals, including six Trump associates, and three companies. WASHINGTON – Compared to previous independent prosecutor investigations, Special Counsel Robert Mueller moved with uncommon speed in the probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump. Over 22 months he issued charges against 34 individuals, including six Trump associates, and three companies. Here are key dates in the probe: 2017 Mueller, also a former FBI director, assembles a team of seasoned investigators and is given broad latitude to examine anything that arises in the investigation, prompting Trump to call it a "witch hunt." Within weeks, the investigation begins examining Trump for possible obstruction of justice. Former Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos is charged with lying to investigators about his dealings with Russians in 2016. Papadopoulos pleads guilty and pledges to cooperate. He eventually receives a sentence of 14 days in prison. 2018 Richard Pinedo, a small-time California internet fraudster with no links to the Trump campaign, pleads guilty to selling false online identities to people from the Internet Research Agency. 20 February: Alex van der Zwaan, a London-based Dutch lawyer, pleads guilty to lying to investigators about his work with Manafort and Gates on behalf of Ukraine. In April, van der Zwaan will be sentenced to 30 days in prison. 23 February: Gates avoids stiff charges in a plea deal with investigators. He pleads guilty to lying to investigators and conspiring to defraud the government in relation to his Ukraine work, while agreeing to cooperate with the Mueller team. 9 April: In a Mueller spinoff case, New York prosecutors raid the residence and offices of Michael Cohen, Trump's then personal lawyer and fixer. They focus on Cohen's arranging hush payments to women claiming affairs with Trump, as well as financial wrongdoings. Cohen later implicates Trump in the hush money payments. 8 June: Mueller expands charges against Manafort in a second case filed in Washington DC, and adds Manafort confidant Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian with intelligence links, to the indictment. Charges include obstruction of justice and money laundering, but nothing tied to Russian election meddling. 13 July: Mueller charges 12 members of the GRU, Russia's military intelligence agency, with conspiracy to hack the Clinton presidential campaign in 2016. 21 August: A Virginia jury finds Manafort guilty on eight counts of financial fraud in the first case against him. Weeks later, he pleads guilty to reduced charges in the second case as part of a cooperation deal. 29 November: Cohen admits to lying to Congress about Trump negotiations in 2016 to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. Two weeks later he is sentenced to three years in prison. 4 December: Flynn gets a recommendation of no jail time after Mueller notes his "substantial assistance" to the investigation. 2019 25 January: Longtime Republican operative Roger Stone is arrested for lying to investigators about his communications with WikiLeaks in 2016. 7-13 March: Paul Manafort is sentenced to a total of 90 months in prison in his two cases. 22 March: Mueller completes his investigation. Neither Trump nor any of his associates are charged with criminal conspiracy in the Russia interference case, and Mueller leaves unanswered the question of whether Trump tried to obstructed the Mueller probe. In a four-page summary of the report, Attorney General Bill Barr says that the evidence does not support obstruction charges. Trump declares the Mueller report is "a complete and total exoneration." 