The Electoral Commission of South Africa told the media in Sandton that it applied the letter of the law in reaching its conclusions. JOHANNESBURG - The Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) has concluded investigations into 51 objections filed against candidates and parties, and apart from one Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) candidate who has been disqualified for having a criminal record, no one has been found guilty of misconduct. IEC told the media in Sandton that it applied the letter of the law in reaching its conclusions. Complainants have until 11 April to appeal the decisions. Individuals who had filed objections include journalist Karima Brown, but she says she is not aware that her case has been concluded. “My lawyers communicated with the IEC on 8 April, asking them for an update. I was taken by surprise when the electoral commission told the briefing they’ve concluded the matter because they’ve not communicated with me.” Meanwhile, the most objections received by the IEC against political parties were 29 for the African National Congress (ANC), 19 for the Black First Land First, 13 for the Economic Freedom Fighters, and four for the Democratic Alliance. The African Christian Democratic Party, African Independent Congress, African Content Movement and Alliance for Transformation for All had one objection each. The commission has dismissed 50 of the 51 objections, with the PAC's Alton Mphethi disqualified for having a criminal record. IEC chairperson Glen Mashinini said the dismissed objections related to unproven allegations and did not meet constitutional and statutory criteria. "In terms of Section 47 and 106 of the Constitution, every citizen who is qualified to vote for the National Assembly and/or provincial legislature is eligible to stand for election except: unrehabilitated insolvents, anyone declared to be of unsound mind by a court of the republic and anyone who is convicted of an offence and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment without the option of a fine.” WATCH: IEC briefing on objections to candidates on party lists 