ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is has come out strong in EFF leader Julius Malema’s hometown of Seshego, and even received a royal thumbs-up from the Moletjie Traditional Council. POLOKWANE – ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is on a charm offensive in rural Limpopo, earning him an endorsement from the Moletjie Traditional Council. Ramaphosa on Tuesday promised to review the status of the local chief Kgabo Moloto III, who is viewed by his subjects as a king. He addressed an unscheduled meeting at his first stop on the campaign trail in Limpopo, at the Moletjie traditional authority. The Moletjie Traditional Council is 25km outside Polokwane, where Chief Kgabo Moloto III endorsed Ramaphosa on Tuesday morning, setting the tone for how subjects might vote come the 8 May national election. Ramaphosa spent Tuesday morning in a meeting with the traditional leaders. He later addressed the meeting and received a warm welcome from the locals, and promised the official status of Chief Moloto III would be reviewed. His comments come after an April Supreme Court of Appeal ruling against former president Jacob Zuma's installation of VBS-linked Vhavenda leader Toni Ramabulana as a king. Ramaphosa also campaigned in EFF leader Julius Malema’s stronghold of Seshego, outside Polokwane.  He was accompanied by Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha, former provincial roads MEC Pinky Kekana and ANC national executive committee member Thoko Didiza. The ANC president told residents that talks around constructing an oil refinery with the Chinese outside Polokwane have started. In May, The Limpopo Economic Development Agency  signed memorandums of understanding and agreement with nine Chinese companies, who will invest more than $10 billion in the Musina-Makhado special economic zone. Ramaphosa addressed concerns by Seshego residents and said he was aware they had problems with access to water and electricity, and promised the local council would look into their issues. On 2 April this year, Malema tweeted about electricity and water issues in Seshego. It's a real struggle in Polokwane! Yesterday we didn't have electricity for the whole day in Seshego and no water in town and it seems to be normalized. Our people continue with their lives as if nothing is wrong. No one speaks about it like it’s a problem. 💔    ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa pictured during a door-to-door campaign for the ruling party, the ANC, in Polokwane, Limpopo, on 16 April 2019. Picture: Abigail Javier/EWN. ANC President, Comrade @CyrilRamaphosa speaks at the Moletši Tribal Council. #GrownSouthAfrica #ThumaMina pic.twitter.com/CDQEK8UFbf 