Thembinkosi Rawula alleges that the EFF’s national leaders have been fleecing the organisation, while those who have objected to the practice are being  chastised. JOHANNESBURG – An Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) central committee member who was left off the party’s nomination lists for parliament and provincial legislatures has made serious allegations against the party’s national leaders, including Julius Malema. In a lengthy Facebook post, Thembinkosi Rawula alleges that the EFF’s national leaders have been fleecing the organisation, while those who have objected to the practice are being chastised. The EFF is one of the 48 parties contesting the elections on 8 May. Rawula said he was not being vindictive by accusing the red beret's national leaders of stealing money. He told Eyewitness News his decision to speak out about the state of the organisation comes after he was hamstrung along with other members, saying criticism about the party's leaders is a quick way to get kicked out of the organisation. With just over 30 days left before the elections, Rawula said he found it necessary to reveal the true character of the EFF. “You have the EFF inside this whole organisation, receiving state money and it refusing to be held accountable about that money, it uses that money for corrupt activities. Yet it is the EFF that championed for a corrupt-free society.” While he has not resigned from the party just yet, Rawula said his decision to speak out is in line with the organisation’s values of fighting corruption in all its forms. “South Africans as they receive these prophecies because now it’s election and people prophesying, it is within the right of the voters to say how are you going to transcend beyond these issues? Because if you claim to be better than the ANC, yet you’re unable to run your own house.” He added that although he’s the chairperson of the disciplinary committee, he could never act on any allegations brought against Malema and his allies.  Rawula says although he’s been a member of the EFF’s central command team since 2014, he’s never laid eyes on the organisation’s financials. He also claims that Malema admitted at a recent meeting that the party had taken money from the now-defunct VBS Mutual Bank. The party has publicly denied being beneficiaries of the large scale corruption which saw almost R2 billion looted from the bank. In the scathing statement, Rawula claims that Malema and his deputy Floyd Shivambu’s modus operandi is to inflate costs of service providers in order to pocket the party’s funds. He also accuses EFF treasurer Leigh-Ann Martys as only being responsible for “petty cash” while the party’s finances are controlled by Malema and Shivambu. The EFF was not immediately available for comment.