Major routes, including the N1 and N3, are experiencing high traffic volumes on Monday as people make their way back home after the Easter long weekend. JOHANNESBURG – The N3 Toll Concession says some lanes have been opened on the N3 Toll Route at the Tugela Toll Plaza as three accident scenes have been cleared. Earlier the company reported that the Tugela Plaza northbound had been closed as emergency services attended to three serious crashes involving multiple vehicles in the vicinity of Van Reenen's Pass on the N3 Toll Route. "I am pleased to say that the crash scenes have now been cleared and we want to express appreciation to the law enforcement authorities and recovery personnel who have worked really hard to achieve that," says N3 Toll Concession’s Con Roux. "But we are still sitting with a very extensive backlog in the Van Reenen's Pass vicinity so we are advising motorists to delay travel to that area." Roux said earlier that the rain seemed to have really compounded issues.  Major routes, including the N1 and N3, recorded high traffic volumes on Monday. Many parts of the country, including Gauteng, the Free State, Northern Cape and the Eastern Cape, were experiencing heavy rain conditions. The Road Traffic Management Corporation's (RTMC) Simon Zwane urged motorists to be extra careful on the wet roads. “We’d like to urge those who are driving to be careful because it’s raining,” he said. However, Zwane said the RTMC had noted some positive behavioural changes from motorists this Easter. The South African Weather Service has warned that the wet weather conditions could lead to flooding.  Meanwhile, Gauteng community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane  has wished travellers making their way in and out of the province a safe journey as traffic volumes rise. She called on drivers to prioritise safety and obey the rules of the road. Nkosi-Malobane's spokesperson, Ofentse Morwane, said traffic volumes started rising on Monday afternoon and were expected to remain high until the evening as people travel back to Gauteng after the long weekend. “We wanted to take this opportunity to appeal to our road users to be cautious on the roads and ensure that they comply with the rules as expected,” said Morwane. The department said on Saturday alone, 68 drunk drivers were detained while 19 pedestrians were also arrested on freeways. On Sunday, Gauteng traffic police’s high-speed unit arrested 11 speedsters for failing to follow the prescribed maximum limit of 120km per hour on freeways.