Members of the party delivered a petition on Wednesday, raising concerns about some individuals who've made it onto the ANC’s candidate list for Parliament. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has described the Democratic Alliance’s (DA) decision to drop off orange overalls and handcuffs outside its Luthuli House headquarters as a dirty campaign trick. Members of the party delivered a petition on Wednesday, raising concerns about some individuals who've made it onto the ANC’s candidate list for Parliament. The DA claims over 500,000 South Africans have objected to several ministers who've been implicated in allegations of state capture and other crimes including sexual assault and corruption. The DA explained it marched to Luthuli House because it could not sit back while South Africa is governed by criminals. The DA's Gauteng candidate Solly Msimanga led a group of members to the ANC's headquarters, carrying orange overalls and handcuffs. Security guards later removed the items from the headquarters. “I cannot imagine having David Mabuza as deputy president or being the president.” Motivating our activists to keep the moment, as we have three weeks till elections. #MsimangaForPremier #OneSAForAll pic.twitter.com/HQAw0cm3BH  We shall not keep silent when our coffers are being looted. #MsimangaForPremier #OneSAForAll #PrisonNotParliament pic.twitter.com/iIvEvtGpjK  The ANC has accused the DA of provocation and using the party as a scapegoat. "We are sick and tired of being sick and tired of the DA's monkey tricks. They are running out of ideas. They are imploding. Patricia de Lille is gone and Mmusi Maimane is just a stooge," the party’s Dakota Legoete said. PARTY LIST The ANC said it had not completed its internal processes and could pre-empt the outcome of a report by its integrity commission, which reportedly recommended the removal of top officials from its candidate lists for Parliament. It's alleged that Deputy President David Mabuza and the party's chairperson Gwede Mantashe are among those who failed to pass scrutiny by the party's integrity commission. The ANC said all its candidates who made it onto the party lists met all the requirements in terms of the electoral law. Legoete said the top six would study the recommendations of its integrity commission. “We cannot pre-empt or second guess the report by the integrity commission. We are not at a stage to take action.” 'DO THE RIGHT THING' The DA has called on the ANC to do the right thing and restore the dignity of being in public office. The party said it backs the ANC’s elders who called on the party members implicated in corruption to remove themselves from the list of candidates to the National Assembly. WATCH: ANC elders: We are cleansing the party, corrupt leaders must go  Msimanga said: “If the ANC really cares about the people of South Africa, they will listen and remove these people from their list.” Meanwhile, Legoete said the party would lay a formal complaint with the IEC for what it described as “provocation”. “We had to ask our members not to act. They were ready to take them all. But we can’t promote violence.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)