Eskom said the system remained vulnerable and unreliable after losing additional units on Sunday. JOHANNESBURG - Eskom  has warned that the risk of load shedding remains high for the week as a result of a shortage of capacity. Monday’s stage two load shedding is expected to continue until 11 pm. Eskom said the system remained vulnerable and unreliable after losing additional units on Sunday. The cash-strapped utility said the loss of units resulted in an increase of diesel and water usage, leading to the inability to conserve both resources to minimise power cuts. Eskom spokesperson Dikatso Mothae said: “We had load shedding over the weekend and there’s a high chance that it will remain for the week and as soon as we have more information into what stage we will implement, we will ensure that we communicate that to the public.” • How to check your load shedding schedule On Friday, Eskom had to ramp up the rotational power cuts to stage 4 as the situation deteriorated. In his newsletter on Monday morning, President Cyril Ramaphosa said the problems with the construction of two power stations account for much of Eskom’s crises. You don't have to remind South Africans of Eskom’s many problems. Flicking on a switch in your home only to find there's no power is enough. The president's latest newsletter centres on the country's power crisis. Ramaphosa said the cost of building the Medupi Power Station has escalated dramatically. It's behind schedule and with five of its six units in operation, it is not yet performing at the level it is expected to. Ramaphosa said the problems with Medupi's construction and that of its 'twin' Kusile account for much of the financial crisis at Eskom. He emphasises there have been other factors not least of which are the effects of state capture. The president, however, said Medupi would be impressive once the work to correct the problems with its design and construction is complete. It is expected to contribute around 4,700 megawatts into the national grid, producing enough power in a year to meet the electricity needs of more than a million people.