Speaking on 702’s SportsTalk on Sunday night, Faul shared what would be expected of the former Proteas captain. JOHANNESBURG - Interim Cricket SA CEO Jacques Faul admits the focus this week is on ensuring that Graeme Smith signs his contract with the organisation. On Saturday, President Chris Nenzani confirmed that Smith agreed to a deal in principle to take over the role of director of cricket and has been given a deadline of Wednesday to sign on the dotted line. Speaking on 702’s SportsTalk on Sunday night, Faul shared what would be expected of the former Proteas captain. “Graeme would be vital in the way forward,” he said. “He is a highly respected and experienced cricket man. This week there is going to be a big focus on getting Graeme over the line, we don’t have much time but that is the way forward, getting Graeme in place. Give him the mandate to improve our on-the-field efforts immediately”. Faul has also added there will be no coaching changes, with Enoch Nkwe said to continue on in his role as team director and lead the Proteas in the series against England, which starts on boxing day. “I’ve also heard that Enoch has been confirmed in the past, but I’ve just got to make sure and check it. To be fair to Enoch I think he is a fantastic coach, he has down well. The India tour was not a great start for any coach and I think any coach could have struggled in India”. Faul, meanwhile, said the issues laid bare at CSA over the past week must be dealt with swiftly. On Friday, Standard Bank announced that they would not be renewing their contract with the Proteas when it expires in April 2020 due to reputational damage. While CEO Thabang Moroe has been placed on paid suspension  following allegations of misconduct. Faul said all these problems must be sorted to move the game forward. “Cricket SA would be the first to admit we haven’t done well. We need to fix things. There is no way I can sit here and try and defend the way cricket has been operating at the highest level because it’s not been good. We as cricket administrators are temporary custodians of the game and we have got to fix it”.