Over 2,000 vehicles are passing the N3 toll road on Saturday afternoon, with most cars going to Durban. JOHANNESBURG –  Road authorities say there's high traffic volume on the N3 coming from Gauteng to KwaZulu-Natal with scores of holidaymakers travelling for the Christmas period. Over 2,000 vehicles are passing the N3 toll road on Saturday afternoon, with most cars going to Durban. N3 toll concession spokesperson Con Roux said, “Currently we have extremely heavy traffic, as the traffic wave has now reached Mooi Plaza where we are finding the same volume of about 2,000  vehicles an hour. It’s extremely busy, we are appealing to motorists – under those circumstances – to be patient. 14h13 21/12 #N3TrafficCount - per hour 13h00-14h00: #MooiPlaza to JHB-950 to DBN- 1580 (Very Busy)#TugelaPlaza to JHB-700 to DBN-960 (Busy).#WilgePlaza to JHB-630 to DBN- 700 (Moderate),#DeHoekPlaza to JHB-570 to DBN- 780 (Moderate)  NO MERCY FOR LAW BREAKERS ON KZN ROADS As more holidaymakers make their way to various destinations, the authorities are warning they will not show mercy to those who disobey the law. Police have been deployed en masse to curb criminal activity during this holiday season. In recent days, incidents of anarchy fuelled by alcohol consumption in public spaces have raised concerns. The police’s Vish Naidoo says they have partnered with other law enforcement agencies including state security to combat the abuse of alcohol in public facilities. "Abuse of alcohol is one of the biggest crime generators when it comes to contact crimes such as murders, rapes, assault GBH and soforth. We have put measures in place." KwaZulu-Natal community safety spokesperson Gugu Sisilana says they will be on the lookout of motorists who break the law. "Road traffic inspectors are not only going to focus on drunk drivers, but will also concentrate on checking the road worthiness of vehicles, overloading as well as motorists who use mobile phones while driving." In KwaZulu-Natal alone – 81 drunk drivers have already been arrested since the beginning of this month.Several motorists have also been fined for overloading. At the same time, transport authorities say despite efforts to reduce road carnage this holiday season, some motorists are failing to adhere to the rules of the road. There have been several accidents this week as hundreds of people make their way to different holiday destinations for the Christmas period. In the Western Cape, three people died in two separate car crashes between Thursday and Friday. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa said, “Please motorists, adhere to our call to stop after every 200km or two hours. Make sure that you are indeed rested before taking these long trips.” Meanwhile, five deaths have been recorded on Mpumalanga's roads  since Thursday. The transport department in the province has vowed to clamp down on lawlessness this festive season. Spokesperson Moeti Mmusi said, “We appeal to motorists to use the road with heightened caution and to also not drive when they are tired because we strongly suspect that fatigue may have played a role – although we are awaiting investigations into these matters.”