Teko Modise said the City was at the testing stage as a team but it was important to find solutions and manage the problems they were facing. CAPE TOWN - Former Cape Town City FC midfielder Teko Modise admits the team is going through a patch they never expected would happen this year. Modise said the City was at the testing stage as a team but it was important to find solutions and manage the problems they were facing. The Citizens - who are currently sitting in 13th spot in the Absa Premiership after playing 14 matches with just 13 points - are wounded following their last week's 1-0 loss to Port Elizabeth-based side Chippa United at Athlone Stadium. The City staff member believes City should start believing that they are capable of winning games. "I'm aware of how they are feeling - it's okay to feel like that so you understand you don't want to be in that position again, we are taking this as a team. There are positive signs, there are no issues within the team or in the dressing room - we all one, we all want to win," said Modise. "I think its a matter of time; we should start believing in ourselves that we are capable of winning games. We are capable of being great and be where we were - we need to go back to do the basics right. The basics include us defending well - we need to find ways how to score and we need to create chances to score and we need to know how to win when it's difficult." The Cape side is currently under the new coach Jan Olde Riekerink who was appointed last month, replacing sacked Benni McCarthy. The new mentor has since played three matches at the helm - losing one match playing two draws. Modise believes the team has what it takes to turn things around. "We've got a great coach, its just matter of time before things start rolling - we're not playing badly, we never did. It's just that results are not coming. We're not scoring as many goals as we supposed to and we're also conceding too many goals," said the 36-year-old former Bafana Bafana player. It's important for us as a team to find solutions and manage the problems we have because I believe if we can survive them, it will make us a better team. We are going through a patch that we never expected to happen this year."