Henry Davids scored an unbeaten 77 runs to help Paarl Rocks win the second edition of the Mzansi Super League by eight wickets over the Tshwane Spartans at Boland Park, Paarl on Monday. Henry Davids led the Paarl Rocks to victory over the Tshwane Spartans at Boland Park, Paarl on Monday, in the second edition of the Mzansi Super League (MSL). Paarl Rocks captain Faf du Plessis chose to field after winning the toss on a sunny day in the Cape Winelands. In 28 degrees heat, Boland Park saw 7 500 spectators pack the stadium - the biggest crowd for this year's tournament. The visitors posted 147-6 in their 20 overs - leaving the home side chasing 148 to win. AB de Villiers was the Spartans' top scorer with 51 runs, while Rocks' seamers Isuru Udana and spinner Tabraiz Shamsi took two wickets each. It didn't take long before the Rocks' pace attack struck, with the first wicket of Tony de Zorzi - bowled out for five runs by Udana. Dean Elgar was next to follow as he fell to Shamsi for 22 runs. The Spartans were 55 for two, and Shamsi was on song in Boland as he took his second wicket of the day - the wicket of Heinrich Klaasen for 21. The Spartans hopes were relying on De Villiers who was dropped twice but dismissed by Udana for 51 runs. The Tshwane team finished their innings on 147 after six wickets. The Rocks started the run chase on a high, reaching 61 runs without losing a wicket, after five overs. The two batsmen at the crease, Henry Davids and Cameron Delport, showed no mercy for Spartans attack, taking the score to 80 for no loss. David Wiese got the breakthrough the visitors wanted when he took the first wicket, bowling Delport for 18 runs while Davids was cruising on 60 not out. After 10 overs the Rocks reached 93 for one wicket, and Davids remained at the crease on 63 runs. He was joined by Dwaine Pretorius. From there it was a formality as the Rocks needed 15 runs for victory in 41 balls. Eventually, the home side held on to win the second edition of the MSL in style.