South African Darryn Frost says he helped pin down a knife-wielding attacker on the London bridge, where two people were killed last month. JOHANNESBURG – A South African man who helped pin down a knife-wielding attacker in London last month has shared details about how he and other members of the public neutralized the assailant. Saskia Jones and Jack Merritt were killed, and several others wounded in the attack on London Bridge that took place on Friday, 29 November 2019 at approximately 2 pm London time. Police fatally shot the known-terrorist Usman Khan who was wearing a fake suicide vest during the attack. Thirty-eight-year-old, South African-born Darryn Frost is part of the communications team at the United Kingdom Justice Department and has lived in the United Kingdom for 14 years. Frost was attending a work-related event at the Fishmongers Hall which is adjacent to London Bridge. Frost says when he and his colleagues heard the chaos from the floor below where they were, they rushed to the scene in the hall on the floor below them. “I took a narwhal tusk from the wall and used it to defend myself and others from the attacker. Another man who had been at the conference held the attacker at bay with a wooden chair.” Frost said in a statement. He says another man kept the attacker at bay with a wooden chair. Frost says the attacker told him that he would blow himself up. “I ran down the stairs, stood next to the man with the chair and the two of us confronted the attacker. He had knives in both hands, and upon seeing me, with the narwhal tusk pointed at his midriff, he stopped.” “He turned and spoke to me, then indicated that he had an explosive device around his waist.” Frost says the man next to him threw the chair he was holding at the attacker. The attacker then ran toward the man with knives raised above his head. Frost spoke about how he and the man worked together in their attempt to neutralize the attacker. “At this point, the man next to me threw his chair at the attacker, who then started running towards him with knives raised above his head. I passed the now unarmed man next to me the tusk, so he could defend himself, and finding myself now unarmed, I ran back upstairs to retrieve the second narwhal tusk.” Frost said. Upon returning, Frost found the first tusk shattered across the floor and people fleeing the hall through the front door. “Along with others, I pursued the attacker, tusk in hand, onto the bridge. We called out to warn the public of the danger, and after a struggle managed to restrain him to the ground. At that point, I was trying to isolate the blades by holding his wrists so that he could not hurt anyone or set off the device.” Frost is the person seen on camera being pulled from the attacker by the police. Please stay away from #LondonBridge! I just saw a man with a knife being shot in the head by police. Please be careful London! pic.twitter.com/BotIffaLJ0  London police have since opened an investigation. Frost wished those injured a speedy recovery and thanked the public and police in the process of pinning down the attacker. Since the attack, Frost started a website called ExtinguishHate.co.uk which aims to challenge hatred and to promote the spreading of kindness. He has also urged the public to support Saskia Jones & Jack Merritt’s donation pages.