The organisation cited a number of concerns with those who are still in power at crickets governing body. JOHANNESBURG - The South African Cricketers’ Association (SACA) on Monday repeated its call for the board of Cricket South Africa (CSA) to step down. CSA announced last week that CEO Thabang Moroe was suspended for misconduct, with Jacques Faul taking up the role on an interim basis. SACA is calling for the president, Chris Nenzani, vice president, Beresford Williams, and current directors to step down. The organisation cited a number of concerns with those who are still in power at crickets governing body. SACA stated that reports of uncontrolled spending by staff, suspension of CSA employees, failure to put in place Proteas team structures, attempts to silence the media, resignations of independent directors citing financial and governance concerns and the withdrawal of the game’s biggest sponsor have unfolded on the Boards watch. “We are astounded that the board of CSA - which has led the organisation during a tumultuous period when all this has happened - now refuses to take responsibility for the deep, deep crisis in which cricket finds itself,” said SACA chief executive, Tony Irish. “The president and other board members ignored the legitimate concerns of SACA and the players for months in the same way that the chief executive did.  Formal and detailed letters were sent not only to the chief executive but also to the president and chairman of the finance committee dating back several months.  No replies to the letters were ever received.” He added that they are willing to engage with Faul for the foreseeable future. “SACA has noted the appointment of Jacques Faul, as the acting chief executive, and is prepared to deal with him in good faith in order to attempt to resolve as many as possible of the current crises affecting the players.  It is hoped that the new chief executive will appoint a highly competent director of cricket so that, even at this very late stage, he can start putting the best possible professional structure around the Proteas team,” he said. “Cricket has been severely damaged by its own leadership and the game desperately needs the right people in whom the cricket stakeholders, including the players, can trust in attempting to fix as much of the damage as possible,” concluded Irish.