The midfielder’s contract with the club expires at the end of the current campaign after club securing his services from Doncaster Rovers in 2015. JOHANNESBURG - Dean Furman admits he is unsure if he will continue to play for SuperSport United beyond the 2019/20 season. The midfielder’s contract with the club expires at the end of the current campaign after club securing his services from Doncaster Rovers in 2015. Speaking on his future, after indicating that he wants a return to Europe, Furman says he will speak to the SuperSport board about his next steps in the next few weeks. “Originally, I came here for three years and I was probably looking to leave after three years but each time I’ve sat down with Stan Matthews, he’s convinced me to stay,” he said on Thursday. “So, what I’ve said to the club is that we’ll sit down with the board, with Stan Matthews, with the coach and have a good discussion about my future. If it remains here, then fantastic but if it remains elsewhere, then we will also consider that but for now, that is what the club has discussed with me that we will sit down afterthese two games about where my future lies”. Furman has also explained what will sway his decision-making process during this time. The Furman family left South Africa country when he was five years old to settle in England before Dean moved back in 2015 to play for Matsatsantsa. “It’s a family decision and it’s also a football decision. I grew up in the UK, playing my football there and I’d still like to go back and play in the leagues there, and I’m not getting any younger. First and foremost, I have to consider my football career and there is a lot still to play for. “I’m still involved with Bafana Bafana and I want to play at a level where I am recognised by the team but also SuperSport is a fantastic club and over the years we have managed to win four trophies. We’ve been to seven cup finals and that’s what drives you on as a footballer. To stay here would be great because I know we would be highly competitive but there are a few other considerations that are going into my decision”. Coach Kaitano Tembo says he wants to keep Furman at the club and hopes a decision can be reached on an extension. “I really think it’s premature to talk about him leaving,” the coach said. “I think it’s important for us to give him a little bit of space and time."