Interim Cricket South Africa CEO Jacques Faul described Graeme Smith as a natural leader whose knowledge of the game was second to none. JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa and former Proteas captain Graeme Smith have confirmed that they have finalised an agreement in terms of which Smith will be appointed acting director of cricket for an interim period. According to reports, Smith will only be in the position for three months due to other commitments in the new year. CSA acting chief executive Jacques Faul welcomed Smith's appointment saying, “I am delighted that Graeme has agreed to assist Cricket South Africa up until the IPL next year. Obviously, Graeme has had his concerns during the course of the last few months, but I am pleased to say that we have overcome those concerns and I look forward to working with him to urgently address pressing cricketing matters in particular". In November, Smith took to Twitter to confirm his withdrawal from the position due to concerns about boardroom interference. However, the organisation announced on Saturday announced after a special board meeting that Smith had agreed on a deal in principle  to become director of cricket. “Graeme is statistically the most successful Test captain in the history of the game,” added Faul. “He is a natural leader and his knowledge of the game is second to none. To have him on board to work with the professional cricket arm of CSA, as well as the cricketing pipeline, which is so vital for our game, is a massive shot in the arm for CSA during this period.” Smith said of his new role, “I’ve publicly stated a number of times that I would love to assist CSA in this difficult time, particularly in developing this new role of director of cricket. I’m still as passionate about South African cricket as I ever was and I’m looking forward to getting stuck into the role. There is a lot of work to be done in the next few weeks and months and my objective will always be to make a positive impact during my tenure.”