In an email to supporters, the campaign said its haul of a little over $17 million this quarter was 'a good chunk behind where we were at this time last quarter.' WASHINGTON - Elizabeth Warren’s presidential campaign told supporters on Friday its fundraising haul stands at just over $17 million and made a plea for more donations with just days left in the fourth quarter. The figure was a sharp drop from the previous quarter and accompanied the progressive Democrats’ slight slide in opinion polls in recent weeks in the Democratic contest to face Republican Donald Trump in the November 2020 election. “We’re only days away from the biggest fundraising deadline of the year, and we’re at risk of missing our $20 million goal,” Warren’s campaign said on its website. In an email to supporters, the campaign said its haul of a little over $17 million this quarter was “a good chunk behind where we were at this time last quarter.” In the third quarter of 2019, Warren’s campaign reported raising $24.6 million, slightly behind the $25.3 million raised by US Senator Bernie Sanders, the only other 2020 Democratic candidate to swear off big-money fundraisers. Warren, a US senator from Massachusetts, has for months been polling in the top three of the crowded Democratic field, along with Sanders and former US Vice President Joe Biden. Support for her White House bid has slid since she announced in November how she would finance her $20.5 trillion Medicare for All plan with new taxes on the wealthy and corporations but without raising middle-class taxes. The plan drew criticism from rivals who say it is unrealistic and from some voters concerned that it was too extreme. Warren said in a Twitter post on Thursday that she would be calling grassroots donors to thank them and asked supporters to “pitch in $3 tonight.” Her campaign on Friday offered to send donors a “Tax the Ultra-Rich” sticker. Warren has been running on a populist message of fighting Washington corruption and Wall Street greed. In October, she vowed to abstain from high-dollar fundraisers if she becomes the Democratic nominee, extending to the general election her refusal to hold such events during the primary season.