Dumisani Chauke says the girls are starting to understand the accountability that comes by wearing green and gold. CAPE TOWN - Proteas assistant coach Dumisani Chauke says South Africa is ready for 2023 Netball World Cup only on a few more things need to be ticked off. Chauke said the girls understood the weight of wearing their green and gold uniforms.  The 33-year-old took over the team in October following the appointment of Dorette Badenhorst as the new head coach. This follows the departure of Norma Plummer. Over the weekend England won 2-1 against the Proteas who last beat the English side in the Quad Series this year and lost twice in this year's World Cup in Liverpool. Chauke said the team is on the right track in preparing for the World Cup, adding the England test was exactly what the team needed. The Proteas finished fourth at this year’s global showpiece. She said they might have one or two additions ahead of their England tour. "It was a great opportunity for some of our girls who have never played against England and never played in the professional leagues in England and Australia. It was a great opportunity for us as coaches to get tested," said Chauke. "With our team, there's always something to improve on - something to get better at. There might be one or two additions with our vice-captain Karla Pretorius coming back from injury." Chauke said that coaching Proteas is a dream come true. "I wanted it and I didn't know when it's going to happen - so I always believe when I'm ready and it's my time the opportunity will come. I have been in the set up with coach Plummer, bringing myself and Dorette as apprentice coaches - South African coaches we were able to travel with her overseas." "I went to the Commonwealth Games last year, and I also went to the Quad Series in London earlier this year so that I start learning and start understanding what it takes for a coach to succeed at this level." The final 12 players for January's Vitality Netball Nations Cup 2020 in England is still to be confirmed by Netball South Africa.