This comes after Western Cape Premier and former Democratic Alliance party leader Helen Zille threatened to organise a national tax boycott. JOHANNESBURG – The South African Revenue Services (Sars) says it will lay charges with the National Prosecuting Authority against those guilty of tax crimes. This comes after Western Cape Premier and former Democratic Alliance party leader Helen Zille threatened to organise a national tax boycott  if those responsible for state capture and abusing state resources are not dealt with, a move the DA itself has slammed. Sars acting commissioner Mark Kingon says morality plays a big role in tax compliance. "We have to ensure that we are treating people fairly. I am a taxman to my heart. It makes my blood boil to hear these stories. We will not stop there. We will lay charges with the NPA." At the same time, DA leader Mmusi Maimane  has again distanced the party from Zille's call for a tax revolt. I'm waiting to see how many ppl get prosecuted and land in jail in a reasonable amount of time after the Zondo commission.  If they do not, just watch me. I will be organising the #TaxRevolt.  I have tried the electoral route for years.  Voters seem to like voting for corruption. https://t.co/WNvDpPKND1  Presenting the party's alternative State of the Nation Address in Cape Town on Wednesday, Maimane said voters must instead use the ballot box to express their dissatisfaction with high levels of corruption, national debt, and unemployment under the African National Congress government. He said personality clashes and policy differences within the DA cannot be equated to the problems within the ANC. He insists the party is in a strong position to challenge the ANC at the ballot box. Maimane thanked Zille for her leadership of the Western Cape but she wasn't present at the gathering attended by senior DA members and a large contingent of the diplomatic corps. “I think frankly that a discussion between two people on Twitter cannot be used as a litmus test for the estrangement of the party…. Otherwise frankly when politicians take each other on Twitter, they shouldn't do.” Last month, the party's head of policy Gwen Ngwenya resigned citing a host of reasons including exclusion from key meetings and a lack of resources. The DA's federal council will meet this weekend to decide on its candidate lists for the upcoming elections.