Mrwebi made the comments at the continuation of his cross-examination on Friday morning at the inquiry probing his fitness to do his job. PRETORIA - Suspended head of the serious commercial crimes unit at the National Prosecuting Authority Lawrence Mrwebi has labelled the Mokgoro Inquiry unfair and says he feels like an accused in court. Mrwebi made the comments at the continuation of his cross-examination on Friday morning at the inquiry probing his fitness to do his job. He says he’s fighting for his career and has been unable to properly prepare to address the allegations against him. “To be honest, I find this process extremely unfair. I blame the process itself [and] I blame the design of the process itself. Other than the broad allegations that you are unfit to hold office, you are not told on which basis what are these issues that need to be looked at.” On Thursday, Mrwebi stuck to his claim  that there was no case against former head of crime intelligence Richard Mdluli, despite the mountain of evidence being read out to him. Despite the High Court ruling that the decision was unlawful, the lieutenant-general has still been prosecuted on fraud and corruption charges. Mrwebi says he studied the entire docket and found no evidence against Mdluli contrary to the findings of several other prosecutors and investigators. At the same time, Mrwebi says he was protecting the integrity of the organisation in the Mdluli case. This despite being the only person to hold a different legal view on how the case should proceed. Evidence leader Advocate Nazreen Bawa put it to Mrwebi that he was alone in his position in the case against Mdluli. “By 20 March, you are again on one side of the spectrum. On the other side of the spectrum, you have the inspector general and the legal advisor, [Glynnis] Breytenbach, [Advocate Jan] Ferreira, [Sibongile] Mzinyathi and [Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Lucky] Mkhwanazi and [Anwa] Dramat; you are the only one insisting on the inspector general conducting an investigation.” Mrwebi says he was acting in the best interests of the NPA: “It’s not to say the inspector general conducts a criminal investigation. Throughout everything I did, I emphasised the question of access to documents because I wanted us to avoid a situation where we find ourselves accused of breaching state privilege.”