The union announced on Tuesday that it will be staging a secondary strike at the mine against plans to restructure the company. JOHANNESBURG - The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu)  has called on all Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders to disinvest as a form of protest against the company's management. The union announced on Tuesday that it will be staging a secondary strike at the mine against plans to restructure the company. The mining giant last week warned that almost 6,000 jobs were on the line after it recorded a R1 billion loss at its gold operations in 2018. Amcu has accused the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) of colluding with Sibanye-Stillwater CEO Neal Froneman to rob the working class of economic freedom. It said it’s clear that the NUM has joined in eating the fruit of the labour of the black mineworkers. Amcu said other unions like Solidarity have become an easy target for soft deals that fail to prioritise the needs of workers. The union said its members have been threatened and intimidated and in some cases, even forced to resign by mine bosses. Amcu has called on shareholders to join their demonstration to fight for the plight of workers. NUM HITS BACK NUM has hit back at rival union Amcu, saying its done more for workers than any other union with a presence at Sibanye-Stillwater. The NUM's Joseph Montisetse said: “We were the pioneers to come up with the provident fund, pension fund and medical aid and even the repeal of rob reservation of 1924 when African mineworkers did not have the rights to be promoted into strategic position like management or engineering.” In a statement, Amcu says Sibanye-Stillwater management sabotaged its initial strike "warming up to the soft approach of sweetheart unions like the NUM." The union says the NUM has abandoned its cause and is now promoting and protecting the interests of the economic beneficiaries of apartheid and colonisation. Montisetse said Amcu's Joseph Matunjwa is obsessed with insulting them “We are gatvol about the lies the president of Amcu. Every time he takes the platform, he insults us.” He says Amcu has created the illusion of a union rivalry at the mine to stir up politics. (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)