The power cuts will be implemented for a fifth consecutive day as the electricity provider battles to keep its generators online. CAPE TOWN - Eskom will implement stage two load shedding on Thursday from 8am, the power utility has confirmed. The power cuts will be implemented for a fifth consecutive day as the electricity provider battles to keep its generators online. Eskom says that while there has been some improvement in its generation capacity, the system remains vulnerable. The power cuts began on Sunday at stage two before being escalated to stage four on Monday after a number of generators went offline. Stage 3 load shedding was implemented in the following days as Eskom managed to return some generators online again. #POWERALERT 1Date: 14 February 2019Eskom implements Stage 2 rotational loadshedding @CityPowerJhb @City_Ekurhuleni @CityTshwane @CityofCT @eThekwiniM @SABCNewsOnline @IOL @eNCA @ewnupdates @Loadshedding_SA @loadshedbuddy pic.twitter.com/gboEZED9IH  Here's how you can check your local load shedding schedule: If your municipality is an Eskom customer, you can look your schedule up on the Eskom website by typing in your area's name. If your municipality doesn't use Eskom, you can still look up your area's schedule on the Eskom website, on your municipality's website or by giving them a call. For load-shedding schedules affecting the City of Johannesburg, you can visit www.citypower.co.za, or call 086 056 2874, or follow them on Twitter @CityPowerJhb. For load-shedding schedules affecting the City of Tshwane, you can visit www.tshwane.gov.za, or call (012) 358-2111/(012) 427-2111, or follow them on Twitter @CityTshwane. For load-shedding schedules affecting the City of eThekwini, you can visit www.durban.gov.za, or call 080 13 13 111, or follow them on Twitter @eThekwiniM. If you live in the Mangaung Metro Municipality, you can visit www.mangaung.co.za, or call 0800 111 300. You can also visit www.centlec.co.za or call 086 007 6937. For City of Cape Town residents Eyewitness News has created an interactive map. Just enter your street address or turn on your location and go.