The latest move comes as Taiwan prepares to hold a presidential election in January, with Beijing-friendly candidate Han Kuo-yu of the opposition KMT party hoping to defeat President Tsai Ing-wen. BEIJING - China stepped up pressure on Taiwan on Wednesday as it announced the suspension of individual travel permits to the self-ruled democratic island "due to current cross-strait relations". Relations between Communist-ruled Beijing and Taipei have plummeted since President Tsai Ing-wen  came to power in 2016 because her party refuses to recognise the idea that Taiwan is part of "one China". As punishment, Beijing has cut official communications, ramped up military exercises, poached diplomatic allies and ratcheted up economic pressure on the island. The latest move comes as Taiwan prepares to hold a presidential election in January, with Beijing-friendly candidate Han Kuo-yu of the opposition Kuomintang (KMT) party hoping to defeat Tsai. A programme had allowed Chinese citizens in 47 mainland cities to apply for permits to visit Taiwan on their own instead of visiting on group tours. But the tourism ministry said in a brief statement that their issuance would be suspended from Thursday "due to current cross-strait relations" - a move that could hurt the island's economy. The statement did not mention any restrictions on group tours. Taiwan experienced a sharp drop in mainland tourists after Tsai took office in 2016. Tourism operators attributed the decline to a more negative portrayal of Taiwan in Chinese media, along with scaled-back promotion of tours by major Chinese travel agencies. But mainland arrivals rebounded by around 30% in the first half of this year after the KMT won local elections in 2018, according to the Taiwan Visitors Association. MILITARY WARNING Now Han is looking to unseat Tsai of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in a presidential election dominated by relations with China. Taiwan has been a de facto sovereign nation since the end of a civil war in 1949, but China still views the island as its territory and has vowed to seize it - by force if necessary. Han, 62, said in a speech Sunday that the election would be a choice between "peace or crisis" with China. Tsai, also 62, has described the election as a "fight for freedom and democracy", setting herself up as someone who can defend Taiwan from an increasingly assertive Beijing. The Chinese defence ministry issued a white paper last week reiterating Beijing's willingness to use force to "resolutely defeat anyone attempting to separate Taiwan from China". Beijing has also lashed out at Washington over its close ties with Taipei and its plans to sell more weapons to the island. An American warship sailed through the Taiwan Strait last week. The Chinese military, meanwhile, is holding military exercises southwest and north of Taiwan this week.