The man many have accused of enabling massive corruption and the plundering of state resources will finally take the stand at the inquiry after weeks of anticipation. JOHANNESBURG – His name has been mentioned during incriminating testimony by several witnesses at the state capture commission of inquiry and on Monday morning former President Jacob Zuma will get a chance to have his say. The man many have accused of enabling massive corruption and the plundering of state resources will finally take the stand at the inquiry after weeks of anticipation. *Follow Jacob Zuma's Zondo Inquiry appearance with our live blog For some time, there was a back and forth between the commission and Zuma as he questioned its credibility, claimed he was never implicated and even asked questions to be sent to him in advance. It's the long-awaited appearance at an inquiry that's exposed levels of corruption South Africans hadn't quite anticipated. WATCH: Former President Zuma & state capture: A timeline  And from Monday the focus shifts to Zuma. He's set to respond to allegations that, during his tenure, he enabled state capture and allowed his close associates including the Gupta family to effectively loot state-owned entities and influence Cabinet ministers. Zuma has been implicated by several witnesses, including former government spokesperson Themba Maseko, who detailed how the former president allegedly asked him to help the Guptas secure advertising. Some people were summoned to the family home in Saxonwold where they were offered ministerial positions. There was also former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene who alleged that Zuma put pressure on him to sign a nuclear deal with the Russians, an agreement that would have crippled South Africa financially. But these damning allegations don't seem to have shaken Zuma. He posted a video Sunday on Twitter, in which he's seen laughing and mimicking a group of old women who once made a song, calling for him to step down.  It's unclear what Zuma's strategy is but this is a big moment for the man who reluctantly established the inquiry, after claiming there was no state capture and then accused the commission of targeting him. 5 KEY TIMES ZUMA HAS BEEN IMPLICATED IN STATE CAPTURE AT ZONDO COMMISSION Zuma has been named as a key figure in a number of scandals that have played out over some years as a result of his alleged close links to the controversial Gupta family. Here's a reminder of just a few of the times he's been publicly implicated by witnesses. QUICK VISAS FOR INDIAN NATIONALS In early June, former Gupta-owned ANN7 news editor Rajesh Sundaram said that Zuma was involved in expediting the visa applications for Indian nationals who were recruited to start up the news channel. "The details of these people were to be sent to someone in South Africa and he would then speak to high-level officials here; I was told that the president’s office would then direct the relevant departments to expedite the visas,” Sundaram said. SABC ARCHIVES GONE FOR A STEAL In another scandal related to the ANN7 channel, Sundaram said that the Gupta family used their friendship with Zuma to buy historic archive material from the SABC worth millions of rands for far less than the material's value. Sundaram also alleged that Zuma was involved in the day-to-day running of ANN7. PARTIES FOR THE PRESIDENT Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi listed numerous favours that he and the company performed for politicians. These include sponsoring Zuma's 72nd birthday cake and other parties and African National Congress rallies on his behalf. "We'd have to fly in chefs, we'd have to make sure there were marquees with air conditioning, draping, even going down to making up a birthday cake... getting calls at 8pm at night and saying 'look, you need to prepare 20,000 lunch packs for tomorrow morning for a rally or campaign, and it all needed to be done because it was all ANC," Agrizzi said. NAME DROPPED TO GET THE GUPTAS IN The controversial landing of an aircraft carrying family and friends of the Guptas at the Waterkloof airbase made its way back to the headlines again when former head of state protocol Bruce Koloane admitted to using Zuma's name to put pressure on Department of Defence officials to authorise the landing. In the recording, Koloane said that then Transport Minister Ben Martins had been given instructions by Zuma to authorise the Gupta landing. INTERFERENCE AT TRANSNET Former Public Enterprises Minister Barbara Hogan alleged that Zuma interfered with the appointment of the Transnet CEO. Additional reporting by Lungelo Matangira. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)