Chartered accountant Gerhard van der Westhuizen said Brian Molefe made his position clear when he objected to the former chief executive's decision regarding a surveillance system contract. PRETORIA - A former Transnet employee has explained how he feared losing his job if he did not carry out an instruction by former group chief executive Brian Molefe to irregularly award a tender to a company. Chartered accountant Gerhard van der Westhuizen made the revelations at the state capture commission of inquiry in Parktown on Monday. He explained how Neotel was recommended for a surveillance system contract. However, Molefe, against procurement recommendations and against his advice, instructed that it be awarded to T-Systems. Van der Westhuizen was asked why he authored a memo to support T-Systems being awarded the tender if he felt so strongly against it. “Chair, my view at the time was that if I did not compile this document, my career at Transnet would be short-lived. I don’t think I had much of a choice,” he told Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Van der Westhuizen said Molefe made his position clear when he raised his objection to the former chief executive's decision. “In that meeting… I could see it in his eyes that if I said another word… maybe I misread the situation, security was going to kick me out,” the former Transnet employee said. Van der Westhuizen revealed how on the eve of a deal being concluded with Neotel, a contract that signed off on tens of millions of rands to a consultancy surfaced. He said the contract played no part in the negotiations for sealing the agreement. Neotel had lost an earlier tender, before entering into negotiations to sell its infrastructure to Transnet to allow the new contractor to provide services. Van der Westhuizen said he led negotiations between the two companies and closed the deal in December 2014. But he explained to advocate Veruschka September that a contract later emerged between Neotel and a company called Homix. “The contract between Neotel and Homix was signed in February of 2015, a month or two after the conclusion of the MSA (master service agreement). But the commencement date in the agreement is 12 December 2014.” The commission has previously heard that Homix is a Gupta-linked shelf company used as a vehicle to siphon funds from Transnet.