UDM leader Bantu Holomisa is addressing his supporters as part of the party's last election campaign drive. CARLETONVILLE - A handful of people arrived at the Khutsong Stadium in Carletonville in Gauteng's West Rand on Saturday for the United Democratic Front (UDM)’s final rally ahead of next week's polls. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa was addressing his supporters as part of the party's last election campaign drive. A handful of UDM supporters were already seated waiting for the arrival of the party leader Holomisa. #UDM rally .A handful of UDM members at the Khutsong Stadium in Carltonville on Gauteng ‘s West Rand -ahead of Bantu Holomisa rally pic.twitter.com/VzCDREtEUy  #UDM rally.UDM rally gaining momentum pic.twitter.com/zhXfWLvkue  Holomisa was on his last leg of election crusade just five days before the country goes to the polls on Wednesday and is expected to address his party’s supporters. Residents of from this community boycotted the second national elections following weeks of violent protests over the proposed move to relocate the mining town to the North West. The residents emerged victorious as the town remained in Gauteng. ANC SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO GOVERN AGAIN Holomisa said the African National Congress (ANC) should not be allowed to rule again because that would be another five years of corrupt government. Holomisa said despite his party not having much-needed resources to run its election campaign they had done their groundwork successfully. Holomisa told his supporters that should ANC win the polls it would be an extension of corruption. He further called on other political parties to watch the IEC like a hawk to avoid vote rigging. Holomisa added that voters must apply their minds when they are voting on Wednesday. He added that voters should realise how opposition parties have done a stunning work of exposing corrupt individuals from the ANC. BIG BUSINESSES DON'T CARE ABOUT SMALL PARTIES Holomisa has launched an attack on the country’s big businesses saying they are only supporting the governing party for benefits. Holomisa said they don't have an interest in supporting small parties He went on to say South Africa will a better place without the ANC. He called on his supporters to go out in their numbers and vote for the UDM.