The system was scheduled to go live last Monday but was forced to be put on hold after some organisations threatened legal action against the department. JOHANNESBURG - The Gauteng Education Department announced on Sunday it had dealt with all legal battles that stemmed from its online registration and was now ready to go live from 8 am on Monday. The system was scheduled to go live last Monday but was forced to be put on hold after some organisations threatened legal action against the department. #2020GPOnlineAdmissions The Gauteng Education Department has announced, it’s dealt with all problems arising from it’s online admissions for grade 1 and 8 pupils and is now ready to go live from 8am tomorrow. TK  Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi gave an update on the state of readiness for the 2020 online admissions for grade 1 and 8 pupils. Lesufi announced he had reached an amicable solution with parents and some organisations that threatened to take his department to court over some aspects of the online admissions policy. “…And after intensive discussions and numerous negotiations on all the issues that I’ve raised with you, all parties withdrew. There’s no legal letter that is standing in our way to go ahead and launch the online registration [portal].” Lesufi said his department is ready to go live from Monday. “So, I’m proud to announce, come 8 am on 20 May our system will go live,” he said. Various walk-in centres had been set up in various areas across the province to assist parents who wished to apply.The online system will close on 22 July at midnight. Lesufi said several issues were agreed upon in the interest of strengthening the online process. “I want to take this opportunity to thank all parents for their understanding, cooperation and bearing with us when we were going through this difficult process. We have a choice as a country; disrupt the future of our children or put our difference aside and negotiate a deal that will be in the interest of our learners.”