President Cyril Ramaphosa has made a last effort to convince KwaZulu-Natal to keep the ANC in power. DURBAN - President Cyril Ramaphosa says farm owners who are planning to prevent their workers from voting on 8 May should desist from such action. He was speaking at the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) National May Day rally in Durban. He said while the African National Congress (ANC) had erred in the past, it remained the only party that could take the country forward. Cosatu and the South African Communist Party (SACP) reiterated their support for the ANC, and the president thanked Cosatu unions for campaigning for the ruling party. GALLERY: Cosatu May Day rally  Ramaphosa has made a last effort to convince KwaZulu-Natal to keep the ANC in power. Even though the party had let the country down, he said the ongoing commissions were a way of getting the party back on track. “We have erred, but the ANC is still the only party to take South Africa forward.” He warned farm owners who were allegedly threatening to prevent workers from voting not to do so. “Some farm employers should not stop workers from voting. If we find you have prevented them, we will look at processes to ensure workers vote.” He said the ANC could already smell victory.  MINIMUM WAGE Ramaphosa also promised workers that the National Minimum Wage Bill passed in 2018 would be implemented by all companies. He also said that Transport Minister and SACP leader Blade Nzimande had made affordable public transportation his priority. Ramaphosa, Nzimande and Cosatu president Zingiswa Losi presented a united front as they wooed workers to vote ANC at a National May Day rally. The country’s high unemployment rate of 27% remains a concern, and the president said this was the reason he embarked on an investment drive that attracted more than R4 billion. But he said the only way to bring change for workers was if the minimum wage was applied. “To ensure that the national minimum wage is implemented effectively.” He said Nzimande was already working on a plan to make transport more affordable. “We want to bring an end to the amount you spend on transport and the time you spend travelling from home to work.” Ramaphosa said the ANC government had already introduced labour relations legislation for workers, including maternity and paternity leave. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)