Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo said he was also concerned that the Hawks' Colonel Navin Madhoe, who is facing several allegations of corruption, was still at work. JOHANNESBURG - Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has ordered his legal team to ask the Hawks why they did nothing when whistle-blowers told them of the R647 million payment Transnet made to a fake supplier, Business Expansion Structured Products (BEX). “I want to know what’s happening about this and why should it take so long for the matter to be concluded. The legal team can alert the chairperson of Transnet of this evidence that we’ve heard,” Zondo said. The company secured R5 billion through the deal. This emerged from the testimony of Roberto Gonsalves, who is a minority shareholder in a consortium that benefited from a contract for 1,064 locomotives, which the parastatal procured in 2014 for billions of rand. Gonsvales accused the Hawks of being complacent in dealing with reports of irregularities at the parastatal. Zondo said it was strange that the police had failed to act. Zondo said he was also concerned that the Hawks' Colonel Navin Madhoe, who is facing several allegations of corruption against, was still at work. He has instructed the commission’s lawyers to contact National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole to find out if any action will be taken against Madhoe. Madhoe and controversial Umhlanga businessman Thoshan Panday were charged with corruption for allegedly attempting to bribe former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen in 2011 to doctor a report on an investigation into accommodation tenders worth R60 million. This emerged from Booysen’s testimony at the state capture inquiry earlier in May. Zondo said he was concerned that nothing seemed to have happened since then. “It seemed that not much was happening or had happened about disciplinary action or prosecution with regard to Madhoe. I don’t know whether any communication has been sent to the commissioner of police [Sitole] or whether there’s been any response,” said. WATCH: Roberto Gonsalves testifies at the Zondo commission of inquiry  (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)