The first child of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex is Queen Elizabeth II's eighth great-grandchild and will be seventh in line to the throne. LONDON - The Duke and Duchess of Sussex welcomed their firstborn child in the early morning on 6 May 2019, weighing in at 7lbs. 3oz. The couple's Instagram account stated, "The Duchess and baby are both healthy and well, and the couple thank members of the public for their shared excitement and support during this very special time in their lives. More details will be shared in the forthcoming days." We are pleased to announce that Their Royal Highnesses The Duke and Duchess of Sussex welcomed their firstborn child in the early morning on May 6th, 2019. Their Royal Highnesses’ son weighs 7lbs. 3oz. The Duchess and baby are both healthy and well, and the couple thank members of the public for their shared excitement and support during this very special time in their lives. More details will be shared in the forthcoming days. A post shared by  The Duke and Duchess of Sussex (@sussexroyal) on May 6, 2019 at 6:37am PDT  Prince Harry announced in a statement to television cameras in Windsor that the Duchess of Sussex gave birth on Monday to a "very healthy" boy. "We're delighted to announce that Meghan and myself had a baby boy early this morning - a very healthy boy," a beaming Prince Harry said. "Mother and baby are doing incredibly well, it's been the most amazing experience I can ever possibly imagine." Earlier in May Buckingham Palace said in a statement that the couple wanted to keep the arrival of their baby "private". Some British media reported that the royal couple were considering a home birth, which would also break with the tradition followed by William and Kate of giving birth in the private wing of St Mary's Hospital in London. Prince Harry and Meghan currently live on the grounds of Kensington Palace in London, the residence of William and Kate, but were reportedly planning to move to Frogmore Cottage in Windsor. Their baby is Queen Elizabeth II's eighth great-grandchild and will be seventh in line to the throne. 