Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has asked police management to report back to the state capture commission on the status of the South African Police Service (SAPS) staff whom have been implicated by former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen. JOHANNESBURG - Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has asked police management to report back to the state capture commission on the status of the South African Police Service (SAPS) staff whom have been implicated by former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen. Zondo started off proceedings on Friday by placing on record that the commission officials would write to police management to get clarity on several issues. On Thursday Booysen told the commission that Colonel Navin Madhoe tried to bribe him with about R1.4 million and remained on duty. It's understood no action was taken against Madhoe. Zondo raised concerns following the testimony. “I’ve heard evidence that suggests that he may be guilty of corruption or attempted bribery. I’ve heard not much has been done over many years.” The justice stressed that he was not suggesting any wrongdoing by Madhoe, but he needed clarity on the issue. “Whether somebody has already looked into the matter and came to the decision that nothing should be done, I'd like to know. Therefore, I would like these matters to be brought between senior members of SAPS.” WATCH: Booysen continues with testimony at Zondo Commission  'POLITICALLY SENSITIVE CASES WITHDRAWN' Booysen said a select team of prosecutors was appointed to withdraw political sensitive cases and pursue questionable cases against police officers and Sars officials. He presented a diagram which showed how a handful of prosecutors had been linked to several cases. “These include the Panday matter, the looting of the secret services account and the Cato Manor matter. These same prosecutors invariably were also involved in the prosecution of members from Sars and Shadrack Sibiya and Anwa Dramat in the so-called rendition saga.” The major general identified the prosecutors, saying they were taking instruction from National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) management, including Nomgcobo Jiba and Shaun Abrahams. He said prosecutors who refused to co-operate were overlooked for promotion or forced out of the NPA. ‘ABUSIVE’ NTLEMEZA Booysen said he became so exhausted after years of litigation that when he was removed as head of the Hawks for the last time, he didn't fight back. His testimony has turned to the abuse of both the NPA and the Hawks which saw officials being harassed while trying to investigate corruption and politically connected suspects. Booysen described the former head of the Hawks Berning Ntlemeza as an abusive person, who would shout and scream in anger when he was upset about something. He said while he was on suspension, Ntlemeza replaced eight of the nine provincial head of the Hawks including himself but he chose not to fight this. “At that state, I’d been in and out of court for a period of 5 or 6 years. You had to pick your points. Litigating with the NPA and SAPS, they use the taxpayers’ money, but myself and the Cato Manor had to find funds for ourselves.” The High Court said Ntlemeza lacked integrity and honour and was eventually removed from his position.