Alan Winde was elected as premier on Wednesday following the swearing in of MPLs in the Western Cape legislature. CAPE TOWN - Western Cape Premier Alan Winde said his entire Cabinet would be subjected to a lifestyle audit. Winde will be announcing new MECs on Thursday. He was elected as premier on Wednesday following the swearing in of MPLs in the Western Cape legislature. While Winde has remained mum on what his Cabinet will look like, one thing is for sure, they'll all be subjected to lifestyle audits. “That definitely will be part of programmes that will be put in place.” Two members who won't be returning to the provincial Cabinet is former Economic Opportunities MEC Beverley Schafer and former Transport MEC Donald Grant. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer was elected as deputy Speaker on Wednesday. According to a source, Grant, who was initially on the list to fill a seat in legislature, had resigned. Winde did not want to confirm or deny this, only saying that the former MEC would be “helping him”. INNOVATION The new premier has vowed to bring innovation back into government. Winde said some of the first things on his list include opening his and his Cabinet's doors to the public every first Thursday of the month. "There's one thing that's for certain, with a slow-growth economy, if we don't innovate we're not going to be able to stretch the budget, push the boundaries. So we definitely want to bring more innovation." The ANC's leader in the legislature Cameron Dugmore said he hoped the premier would be open to having department officials and even MECs listen to the ideas of opposition party members. "Ultimately when we don't get our act together and we don't work co-cooperatively where we can, opportunities for people on the ground are missed and we simply will not tolerate that. We need to keep focus on people who need the help of this provincial government the most." The Freedom Front Plus' Peter Marais, who on Wednesday objected to English being the only language spoken during in chambers the sitting, said he wanted to see Winde's stance on minority rights. "Alan Winde will have to decide on the issue of minority rights, recognise the minorities and treat them as equals. I want to see Alan Winde stand up for Afrikaans. Afrikaans must not be the subject of discrimination in our schools, as well as tertiary institutions." (Edited by Shimoney Regter)