Helen Zille was speaking at the Democratic Alliance's Workers' Day rally at Hillsong Church in Century City. CAPE TOWN - Western Cape Premier Helen Zille has told party supporters to keep the province blue come polling day. Zille was speaking at the Democratic Alliance's Workers' Day rally at Hillsong Church in Century City. An enthusiastic crowd of activists and supporters packed the 2,000-seat venue to capacity to hear their leaders speak. #WorkersDay Zille has praised incoming premier candidate Alan Winde saying he is the right man for the job 📷: @CindyArchillies pic.twitter.com/oYaul8SjyO  It is also the DA's final rally in the Western Cape before voters go to the polls on Wednesday, in just seven days' time. Zille told cheering supporters to go all out to prevent a coalition between the African National Congress (ANC) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) from prevailing come voting day next Wednesday. That would bring an end to the DA’s past decade in charge in the Western Cape. “Stay true to the blue, because there’s only one party that can bring people together.” The DA’s candidate for premier, Alan Winde, and party leader Mmusi Maimane also addressed the crowd. #WorkerDay DA Western Cape Premier Candidate, Alan Winde takes the stage. CA pic.twitter.com/OrggimNtTx  COALITION Winde said the party could not afford to be complacent as polling day draws near. The DA is not discounting the possibility of a coalition between the ANC and the EFF snatching control of the province after 8 May. Winde was speaking to Eyewitness News after addressing the party’s Workers’ Day rally. He said while it (Western Cape) was the best-governed province in the country, it would follow ANC-led provinces into failure if the party did not hold its majority come voting day. He said the polls showed the Western Cape could see a coalition coming to power in the province, which could go the way of the ANC and the EFF. “That knife edge means that we've got to get every single vote that we can and make sure that people don’t stray off to other smaller parties. We’ve got to make sure that we keep this province in the interests of what we’ve built in the last 10 years.” A failure to achieve an outright majority could also see the DA trying to cobble together a ruling coalition in the province.