The ANC's selection of a new National Assembly Speaker, NCOP chairperson and party chief whip was ratified at a special NEC meeting in Cape Town on Monday. CAPE TOWN - The African National Congress’ national executive committee (NEC) has finalised the appointment of its leaders in Parliament. The selection of a new National Assembly Speaker, National Council of Provinces (NCOP) chairperson and party chief whip was ratified at a special NEC meeting in Cape Town on Monday. After lengthy discussions, the ANC NEC eventually decided on Thandi Modise as National Assembly Speaker and former Eastern Cape MEC Pemmy Majodina as chief whip, replacing Jackson Mthembu. Amos Masondo will take over the chairmanship of the NCOP from Modise. Lechesa Tsenoli will remain deputy National Assembly Speaker. Party secretary-general Ace Magashule said the list had been adopted unanimously. Party members and those who made it into the list will be officially sworn in on Wednesday. The appointments were as follows: THE ANC WHIPPERY Chief whip: Pemmy MajodinaMajodina was a member of the Eastern Cape provincial legislature from 21 May 2014 until 7 May 2019. She also served as a member of the executive committee of public works in the Eastern Cape provincial legislature until 7 May 2019. Deputy chief whip: Doris DlakudeDlakude has been serving the ANC in various structures for the past 18 years. Her previous positions include treasurer of the ANC Youth League (Ehlanzeni region), ANC branch secretary for a period of six terms and member of the ANC regional executive committee. Chief whip of NCOP: Seiso Mohai Mohai was the chairperson of the provincial executive  committee (PEC) of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in the Free State from 1996 until 1998 when he was elected to the NEC of the ANCYL. In 1999 he was elected as a member of Parliament for the ANC caucus. In 2001 he was redeployed as a chief whip in the Free State provincial legislature until 2004. After the 2004 elections, he became MEC for public works and transport in the Free State until 2009. Following that, he was appointed MEC for finance in the province until 2013 when he was redeployed to Parliament. _PRESIDING OFFICERS: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY_ Speaker: Thandi ModiseBefore being elected on 22 May 2014 as chairperson of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP), Modise served as chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Defence and the Joint Standing Committee on Defence. She also currently serves as chancellor of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology. Deputy Speaker: Lechesa TsenoliTsenoli was elected Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly in May 2014. He is currently a member of the central committee of the South African Communist Party (SACP). He served as deputy minister of rural development and land reform from October 2011 and then as minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs from July 2013 until the May 2014 elections. From 1999 to 2004 he served as MEC for local government and housing in the Free State provincial government. Chair of Chairs: Nomvula Mokonyane This means the controversial former minister won't be heading back to Cabinet. The position of chair of chairs places her in charge of all committee chairpersons. Mokonyane served as minister of environmental affairs, having previously served as minister of communications and water and sanitation. She was the premier of Gauteng from 6 May 2009 until 20 May 2014. PRESIDING OFFICERS: NCOP Chairperson: Amos MasondoHe was elected as a member of the Gauteng legislature and was subsequently elected to serve as mayor of Johannesburg in 2001. Masondo was also a founding member of the United Democratic Front. Upon his release from his last stint in prison under the apartheid government's emergency laws in 1989, he became regional secretary for trade union federation Cosatu. Deputy chair: Sylvia LucasLucas was a member of the Northern Cape provincial legislature from 21 May 2014 until 7 May 2019. She served as the premier of the Northern Cape until 7 May 2019. Magashule said the NEC had also discussed the elections after having received a report from elections head Fikile Mbalula. “Today we’re just finalising and getting a brief report on the elections, who we’ve performed. We looked at the SWOT analysis, how we conducted ourselves. It was also a day when the president presented his overview,” he said. The NEC also reviewed the party’s election campaign.