Former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen said prosecutor Sello Maema drafted the memorandum to support the second decision to authorise racketeering charges against him. PRETORIA - Former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen has accused senior prosecutors of lying under oath and conspiring to ensure he was prosecuted and removed from the Hawks. The major general has testified at the state capture commission of inquiry about his fight over several years to return to office. Booysen was leading high profile investigations into politically connected businessman Thoshen Panday and corrupt senior police officers. He said prosecutor Sello Maema drafted the memorandum to support the second decision to authorise racketeering charges against him. “This particular memorandum was permeated with misrepresentations, there were serious omissions, most importantly it contains falsehoods. Advocate Maema blatantly lies in the prosecution memorandums and I can prove it.” He said prosecutors were acting on instructions. “I deal specifically with a number of prosecutions which I firmly believe did things at the behest of certain individuals. Advocates Maema and Moipone Noko were both part of that group.” Booysen has been challenging the racketeering case in court. 'CATO MANOR CHARGES A FARCE' Booysen said the decision to authorise racketeering charges against himself and the Cato Manor detectives was a farce because the matter which would usually takes weeks to assess was decided overnight. Disgraced former deputy prosecutions boss Nomgcobo Jiba authorised racketeering charges against the major general but these were later set aside by the High Court in Durban. Booysen described the process of analysis and assessment of dockets when considering whether to authorise racketeering charges. “Normally, that procedure would take 14 days. But if you look at the correspondence, the application to prosecute myself and the Cato Manor for racketeering I think landed on the desk of Advocate Anthony Mosing, and within a day, the racketeering charges were authorised. Despite the High Court setting aside that decision, the matter was re-enrolled by former prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams. That decision is now being considered by Advocate Shamila Batohi.