The populist party, founded just three months ago, capitalised on public anger over delays to Britain's exit from the European Union, winning almost 32% with almost all votes counted. LONDON - Nigel Farage's anti-EU Brexit party topped European Parliament polls in Britain, results showed on Monday, putting intense pressure on the ruling Conservatives who suffered a historic rout. The populist party, founded just three months ago, capitalised on public anger over delays to Britain's exit from the European Union, winning almost 32% with almost all votes counted. Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative party meanwhile slumped to 9%, its worst electoral result since 1832. In a sign of the divisions still gripping Britain three years after the referendum vote for Brexit, the pro-European Liberal Democrats and Greens also made significant gains. The elections, which took place on Thursday, were never meant to happen, as Britain was due to be out of the bloc on 29 March. But parliament has been unable to agree on how to leave, slowly sapping May's authority and forcing her to finally announce last week she would quit to let somebody else try. Describing the result as a "very disappointing night", she said: "It shows the importance of finding a Brexit deal, and I sincerely hope these results focus minds in parliament." Several of those vying to replace her, including Boris Johnson, were quick to repeat that Brexit must happen by the latest deadline, 31 October, with or without a deal with Brussels. "We can and must deliver. No one sensible would aim exclusively for a no-deal outcome. No one responsible would take no-deal off the table," Johnson wrote in Monday's Daily Telegraph. It was also a bad night for the main opposition Labour party, which has been accused of a confusing position on Brexit and slumped to 14%. Eyeing the success of the Liberal Democrats and Greens, who want a second referendum to reverse the whole process, senior Labour figures said it was time for their party to decisively back a public vote. 'BIG, SIMPLE MESSAGE' Farage only registered the Brexit party in February but built on his support as a leading campaigner in the 2016 referendum, when he led the now largely defunct UK Independence Party (UKIP). He said his party won with "a big, simple message, which is: we've been badly let down by two parties who have broken their promises." He said his party should now have a say in any new Brexit negotiations with Brussels. The EU has said it will not re-open the withdrawal deal already agreed with May, but many of her would-be successors are still likely to try. Farage also warned that failure to leave the EU on 31 October would see his party replicate its victory in a general election. "History has been made. This is just the beginning," he declared. However, analysts warned that European election results cannot be easily translated into success at British parliamentary elections, not least because a different voting system is used. Anti-Brexit campaigners also hailed the success of parties who want to keep Britain in the EU, suggesting voters are as split as they were when they voted 52 to 48% to leave in 2016. The Liberal Democrats came second with around 20% and 16 MEPs, up from just one MEP in the last European elections in 2014. The Greens, who campaigned on an anti-Brexit ticket as well as for action on climate change, won seven seats with 12% of the vote.