During his testimony on Monday, Duduzane Zuma complained that he was not afforded the chance to dispute allegations made against him by several individuals who made submissions to the chapter nine institution. JOHANNESBURG - Businessman Duduzane Zuma has acknowledged that the Office of the Public Protector did try to provide him with an opportunity to tell his side of the story during the state capture investigation. During his testimony on Monday, Zuma complained that he was not afforded the chance to dispute allegations  made against him by several individuals who made submissions to the Chapter 9 institution. The state capture inquiry into fraud and corruption in the state and public service came about as a result of remedial action recommended in the Public Protector’s report. Zuma on Tuesday told the inquiry that he was out of the country when an official from the PP's office made contact with him, asking that he make representations to it. “Before I could even make those decisions, there was a finalised report that had come out. The reason I raised it yesterday is obviously I am sitting here today, and I have been mentioned in all sorts of lights and I didn’t have the opportunity to give my version of events. The basis of that report is what this whole state capture commission is all about.” WATCH LIVE: Duduzane Zuma back at Zondo commission for second day  I AM NOT CORRUPT In a short monologue made to the commission, Zuma had assured South Africans that he was not corrupt, despite views in what he called "the court of public opinion". Instead, he has argued that he was caught up in a political storm. Zuma painted what he described as the three levels of impact from the accusation by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas that he facilitated a meeting at which the latter was offered a R600 million bribe to become finance minister. These levels, he said, were political, legal and perception driven. The son of former President Jacob Zuma also complained that the allegations had painted him as the face of corruption. He added that he was also viewed as a fugitive of the law, saying even his 2018 arrest at the OR Tambo International Airport when he returned to the country to bury his younger brother was related to the allegations made by Jonas. The businessman said he was caught in a political storm and that it would be folly for anyone to think politics were not at play. His examination and testimony at the commission have concluded for now.