The party’s finance committee initiated an investigation at the request of Maimane after he was accused of having insisted on using the car even after the company’s fraud scandal was exposed. JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has cleared Mmusi Maimane of any financial wrongdoing regarding the Steinhof-sponsored car he used and the house he is currently renting. The party’s finance committee initiated an investigation at the request of Maimane after he was accused of having insisted on using the car even after the company’s fraud scandal was exposed. There were also claims that he wasn't paying a market-related lease for the house he currently stays in. Finance committee chair Dion Geroge said he concluded that there was a delay in returning the car to Steinhoff because Maimane was on an international trip to the US. He said that while there were no formal lease documents that existed, Maimane paid rent covering each month that he and his family have lived in the house. WATCH: Maimane explains why it took DA a few months to return Steinhoff donor car  Earlier this week, Maimane claimed it was those who were against diversity and want to reclaim what he called "the old DA" who were behind the attacks on his integrity. But Maimane said he was not intimidated. “Of course, when people attack they tarnish your image, they attack your family and your integrity. It’s hard but to be honest with you, we’re not intimidated. We’re focused.” Maimane said if the party decided to hold an early elective conference, he would be ready. “I want to be clear that I was open to an early conference. If you want to discuss the direction of the party, then you must be able to have a congress. At our last congress we agreed to freedom and diversity.” He said there were many DA members who believed in the principles of diversity and inclusivity. WATCH: Maimane reveals his family received threats at parliamentary village  ‘MY LEADERSHIP SPEAKS FOR ITSELF’ Maimane said that he wanted his detractors in the party to know he was unapologetic about building an organisation that was inclusive of all South Africans. He’s denied the claims and accused some of his colleagues in the party who are against diversity and inclusivity of planting false information about him to target his integrity. Maimane said it was ridiculous that some within the DA thought they were more liberal than others and therefore believed they had a bigger claim to the party. “The DA must be a party for all and by becoming a party for all it means they must be inclusive who don’t start off as liberal democrats. They may come from different political formations, they may believe different things. But the job of a political party is to be protective to all and bring people so you can share your values.” He said those who wanted him to step down and who were even using the party’s decline in this year’s elections to justify the call, must forget it. “I’m focused on the future, that project is there, my leadership speaks for itself. The same contribution, the same fight was evident in 2016 when we grew and took on more government.” He said he was ready for the party’s early congress should that be decided.