The Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle has filed a claim against Associated Newspapers over the misuse of private information, infringement of copyright and breach of the Data Protection Act 2018. JOHANNESBURG - T he Duke and Duchess of Sussex are suing British tabloid, Mail on Sunday, for what they term the false and derogatory coverage of Duchess Meghan. In a statement on Tuesday, the Duke of Sussex said the duchess had become one of the latest victims of the British press and he even referenced the treatment of his late mother Princess Diana. According to the statement, the Duchess of Sussex has filed a claim against Associated Newspapers over the misuse of private information, infringement of copyright and breach of the Data Protection Act 2018. "This particular legal action hinges on one incident in a long and disturbing pattern of behaviour by British tabloid media. The contents of a private letter were published unlawfully in an intentionally destructive manner to manipulate you, the reader, and further the divisive agenda of the media group in question. In addition to their unlawful publication of this private document, they purposely misled you by strategically omitting select paragraphs, specific sentences, and even singular words to mask the lies they had perpetuated for over a year."  “Unfortunately, my wife has become one of the latest victims of a British tabloid press that wages campaigns against individuals with no thought to the consequences – a ruthless campaign that has escalated over the past year, throughout her pregnancy and while raising our newborn son,” Prince Harry said through the statement. Mail on Sunday and its parent company Associated Newspapers recently published a letter from Markle addressed to her father, which her husband said was done unlawfully and in an intentionally destructive manner. “There is a human cost to this relentless propaganda, specifically when it is knowingly false and malicious, and though we have continued to put on a brave face – as so many of you can relate to – I cannot begin to describe how painful it has been. “Because in today's digital age, press fabrications are repurposed as truth across the globe. One day's coverage is no longer tomorrow's chip-paper.” He added: “My deepest fear is history repeating itself. I've seen what happens when someone I love is commoditised to the point that they are no longer treated or seen as a real person. I lost my mother and now I watch my wife falling victim to the same powerful forces.” Meanwhile, Prince Harry, his wife and their son Archie were expected to spend the day with former first lady Graca Machel  and President Cyril Ramaphosa as part of their royal tour of Southern Africa. WATCH: Duchess of Sussex: When a woman is empowered, it changes everything 